Bangalore, also known as Bengaluru (Kannada: ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು Beṅgaḷūru), is the capital of the Indian state of Karnataka. It is a large, cosmopolitan city with a large working population. Bangalore is the major centre of India's information technology (IT) industry and is known worldwide as the "Silicon Valley of India".


== Districts ==

This article covers the Bangalore Metropolitan Region (BMR), an area of 8,005 km (4,974 mi). Administratively, it is divided into Bengaluru North, Bengaluru South and Bengaluru Urban districts. However, for this article, this city is divided into the following districts:


== Understand ==

Once called the "Pensioner's Paradise", these epithets don't apply to modern Bangalore, due to its explosive growth in the 21st century.


=== Name ===

The name "Bangalore" (bang-guh-LOHR) is an anglicisation of the Kannada name Beṅgaḷūru (ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು, behng-guh-lloo-ruu). The earliest records of a place named "Bengaluru" are found in a ninth-century temple in present-day South Bangalore. A popular myth explaining the name is that it originated from Benda Kaalu Uru (Town of Boiled Beans). The story is told that the name was given to the city by King Vira Ballala, who, while lost in the area, was offered boiled beans by an old woman.
Although the city was officially renamed to "Bengaluru" in 2014, aligning with the Kannada name, the anglicism "Bangalore" is still stuck to some people for decades since, especially by the outsiders. On the other hand, the official name "Bengaluru" has been widely adopted by various newspapers and organisations since then. Both names are considered valid, and this article uses the former name. However, you should use "Bengaluru" to show respect to the locals, who are vigorously proud of their culture and heritage.


=== History ===
The feudal lord Kempe Gowda is credited with developing parts of Bangalore. In 1537, with the assistance of the local king, he constructed three districts protected by a walled fort on the site.
During the next three centuries, Bangalore existed very much in the shadow of the neighbouring city, Mysore, and control of the town changed hands many times. The year 1831 marked a major turning point for the city. Claiming misrule by king Krishna Raja Wodeyar III, the British took control of the Mysore Kingdom and, possibly influenced by the city's salubrious climate, moved the administrative capital to Bangalore. New telecommunication systems were laid, rail connections built, fine government buildings constructed, and the city's famous parks and gardens established. After independence, Bangalore maintained its position as the state capital of Karnataka and continues to grow.
For many years, Bangalore was regarded in India as the greenest, most liberal and forward-thinking city. These attributes have propelled Bangalore to the forefront of India's high-tech industry boom, and it ranks as one of the most developed cities in India and one of the world's fastest-growing urban areas.


=== Climate ===

Unlike the major cities of India which are extremely hot in the summer months, Bangalore enjoys a relatively mild climate all year round.

Summer – February to May (peak temperature is during April and May)
Monsoon – June to October (the heaviest rains are typically between June and August)
Winter – November to January (with January being the coldest month)
Summer temperatures can reach 35 °C (95 °F) and early morning temperatures in the winter hover around 15 °C (59 °F). However, Bangalore has unpredictable weather, unlike certain western cities. It is quite common to have a warm sunny day followed by evening showers ending with cool nights. So, be prepared for rain for the better part of the year, especially from May to November.


== Talk ==
Being the capital of Karnataka, the widely spoken and official language in Bangalore is Kannada. Most people can speak and understand English and Hindi. Other Indian languages such as Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu, Bengali and Urdu are spoken by the respective migrant and minority communities. As Bangalore is a commercial and cultural hub, it has a smattering of Konkani, Marathi and Tulu speakers.
With the rise of Kannada nationalism, language has increasingly become a hot topic in Bangalore, with many locals encouraging minority communities and travellers to learn Kannada. Some auto-rickshaw drivers may be reluctant to speak any language other than Kannada, and a handful of them even charge higher to passengers who cannot speak Kannada.
But that said, many auto drivers, bus conductors and shop assistants can have a conversation in at least basic English. Some of them will be able to understand Hindi, Tamil and Telugu. Signs are generally written in both Kannada and English. However, a basic knowledge of Kannada comes very handy when interacting with locals.


== Get in ==


=== By plane ===

1 Kempegowda International Airport (BLR IATA), Devanahalli (40 km (25 mi) from the central business district of Bangalore (Mahatma Gandhi Road) and 30 km (19 mi) from Bengaluru City railway station), ☏ +91 80 6678-2255, +91 80 6678-2251, toll-free: +1 800 425 4425, feedback@bialairport.com. The airport is occasionally subject to operational restrictions due to fog from 15 November to 15 February between 3AM-8:30AM (IST). Flight delays and diversions may occur on some mornings due to the morning fog. The airport is among India's busiest and most modern. The airport is host to 10 domestic airlines and 21 international airlines connecting the city to about 50 destinations.The airport has an international and a domestic terminal. They share the same building, but are on different sides. When departing from the airport, make sure to check restrictions on times for baggage check-in, and make sure to bring a printout of your boarding pass with you to the airport. For flights leaving in the early hours of the morning (such as 3AM), you may need to check in your bags as much as 2½ hours in advance.      


==== Airport to central business district ====
Buses Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) operates buses between various places in Bangalore to the airport about every 15 minutes. These trips cost between ₹50 and ₹250 depending on the distance.  This is the cheapest and an extremely convenient way to get to the airport.
Taxis
Airport-approved taxis There is a dedicated taxi holding area for travellers arriving at the airport. Taxis at this holding area use meters at the rate of ₹19.5 per kilometer. You will also have to pay the toll charge of ₹120 when you enter the highway. It costs approximately ₹600 to get to Bangalore's central business district, and about ₹700 to Koramangala]. Journeys to anywhere in Bangalore should not cost more than ₹800–1000. More information can be found on the airport site.
Unofficial taxis You may be able to find a ride into Bangalore City at a much cheaper rate by taking a taxi not approved by the airport, but only if you are willing to take a risk. Taxi drivers driving such taxis will attempt to negotiate with you a much lower fare than that charged by EasyCabs sometimes as little as ₹200–300 for a ride to the central business district. These taxis can be found just beyond the terminal plaza at the covered walkway that leads to the car park. Once you leave the walkway, some taxi drivers may become fairly aggressive and may try to take your luggage without your permission. The best thing to do is to keep track of and be in control of, your belongings. Even the most aggressive taxi driver or tout will leave you alone if you stand firm and make it clear that you do not want his help. You should only use such taxis if you have an idea of what the appropriate taxi rates are, and are willing to bargain very hard to avoid being swindled. It is recommended that you agree on a price before you enter the cab; no tip is necessary once you arrive at your destination.
App-based taxis Smartphone app-based taxi services such as Meru Cabs, Ola, Rapido and Uber operate in Bangalore and many provide services to the airport. These operate from a pickup point a little further outside the terminal building. You can follow the signs for an app-based taxi pickup. You will need to download an app to your smartphone and have an Internet connection to be able to use these services. If you don't have an Indian SIM card or cheap roaming data, it may be better to use one of the other taxi services, as the Airport WiFi can be overloaded at peak times.
Uber has a flat rate service from the airport to anywhere in the city for ₹549, including the toll charges.
Ola also operates taxis via their app from the airport.
Limousines and self-drive cars Hertz and Akbar Travels provide pre-paid limousine and car rental facilities through counters at the airport terminal building. These cost above ₹1,200 for travel to the central business district. A pick up and drop off facility in town and at the airport are offered.
Hotel pick-up You can arrange with your hotel to have a driver pick you up at the airport. Some hotels, especially the higher-end ones, provide this service for free if you are staying with them, although some may charge you anything around ₹2,500 (far higher than just taking a taxi). The driver will be waiting in the arrival area of the airport with a sign bearing your name.
Helicopter As of 2025, there are no scheduled/fixed-price helicopter links to the city. If you're really in a hurry and willing to pay for it, Deccan Air offers charters.


=== By train ===

There are many railway stations in Bangalore, each serving certain trains:

2 Krantivira Sangolli Rayanna (station code: SBC; formerly Bangalore City), Railway Station Rd, Kempegowda, Sevashrama (opposite the Majestic Bus stand, Metro Green/Purple: Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Station:Majestic). Most local and long-distance trains arrive and depart from here. Platforms: #1 to 7 connect to Chennai (360 km (220 mi), 5-6h, ₹125-1,105) and Salem (via Hosur), #8 to 10 to Hubli via Yeshwantpur, Tumkur, Birur, #5 to 10 towards Mysore. There also trains depart to Hyderabad via Guntakal.      (updated Nov 2022)
3 Yesvantpur Junction (station code: YPR), Tumkur Rd (metro: Yesvantpur Station  Green , BMTC bus serving the station on its Yeshwantapur old market side (nearer to Platform 1) are 90E from Majestic, 91C and 52E from Krishna Rajendra market also known as City market, 94E from Shivajinagar, K1 from St. Johns Hospital). The other main railway terminal of Bangalore. A few (mostly long-distance) trains arrive and depart from here. All trains towards Hubli stop here. Services: retiring rooms and dormitories, AC VIP Lounge, essential stalls and ATM.      (updated Apr 2023)
4 Bangalore East (station code: BNCE), Pottery Rd (about 5 km (3.1 mi) northeast from the centre). A smaller one.      (updated Nov 2022)
5 Bangalore Cantonment (station code: BNC), Cantonment Railway Station Rd, Kaverappa Layout, Vasanth Nagar. A smaller one. Services: Passenger Reservation Centre, AC VIP lounge, inquiry counters, essential stalls, Food plaza, ATM. PF-1A (Dead end side of Platform 1) is used for terminating trains like 12509/10 Guwahati Tri-weekly Express, 12503/04 Agartala Humsafar Weekly Express, 18635/36 Hatia Weekly Express, 56503/04 Vijayawada Passenger and 2 DMU services operating from Kolar via Bangarpet. The main platforms are used for halting by all the trains passing through this station except 12007/08 Chennai Mysore shatabdi Express.      (updated Nov 2022)
6 Krishnarajapuram railway station (station code: KJM), Outer Ring Rd, Jyothi Puram, Krishnarajapura (all buses between 303 and 320 except 314 series to/from Majestic/Shivajinagar/Market & Ulsoor). An important stop owing to proximity of IT companies and the ring road just passing close to the station and well connected by buses to major parts. It also forms the 1st stop for majority of trains leaving Yesvantpur towards Jolarpettai.      (updated Apr 2023)
7 Kengeri railway station (station code: KGI), Kengeri (5 min walk from Kengeri TTMC on Mysore Rd). An important stop owing to proximity of residential areas in the proximity. It's a major stop for all train coming from Mysore side. Kengeri Bus stand on Mysore road is 5 min walk from Railway station, having access to major Ring Road services of 401K (Yelahanka via Vijayanagar), 401M (Yeshvantapur via Ring Road), 502F (Peenya), 375 (Banashankari via Uttarahalli), 378 (Electronic City via Uttarahalli) and 222A/226N towards Majestic and Market. Global Tech Park is about 3 km (1.9 mi) from here and B.G.S. Global Hospital about 5 km (3.1 mi).      (updated Nov 2022)
Bookings can be done at either the railway stations or at the Indian Railways booking counters in major commercial and residential areas. Booking can also be done online. If you are booking at Bengaluru City and are travelling to Mysore, there is a separate counter for travellers to Mysore. This is to cater for the large number of travellers between Bangalore and Mysore. If travelling to Mysore on a Sunday afternoon, arrive early as there is usually a long line for buying tickets.
As with all Indian railway travel, have some patience for delays. Trains are usually on time (within 20 min of scheduled time), but can sometimes be late. A digital departure board in the station will tell you what platform your train is on and what time it leaves.
For train arrival/departure and PNR status enquiries at various railway stations at Bangalore, call 139 or use Where is my Train or ixigo or IRCTC RailYatri apps.
Travelling from Mumbai to Bangalore by train takes a long time (24 hr or so). Buses are comparatively faster and take 18-20 hr, provided there are no traffic jams in Mumbai and Pune en route. Effective travel time by train or bus is long. Air travel is recommended for traveling between Mumbai and Bangalore, the duration of which is about 90 min. Low-cost airlines charge the same fare as AC train or Volvo bus. However, sleeper class (non air-con) train travel from Mumbai to Bangalore is economical and you can have a view of some lush evergreen forests and river valleys across Western India. Traveling to Delhi can take 39 hours (or more) and the flight ticket just double than the amount of the slow train.
For the Foreign Tourist Quota, go to the big building on the left, before entering the train station through the main access. This is the "Unreserved Tickets" building (even if on the side door it says "Reservation Center"). On the first floor, there is the Chief Reservation Supervisor. The official will book the ticket for you (after showing a foreigner passport). They might refer you to the first counter on the main building. But there you must stand in the queue, while here you can sit at the office and wait they book the ticket for you.


=== By bus ===

If you have difficulty arranging a plane or railway ticket to/from your next destination, or you prefer a little more adventure, you can go by bus. Government and private buses run services to/from major cities like Mumbai, Goa, Chennai, Mangalore, Coimbatore, Madurai, Tirupati, Hyderabad, etc. Buses can be a regular service with only seats and no A/C, a normal luxury bus, a Volvo A/C bus or a sleeper bus for night travel. Buses are also good for coming from many towns in Karnataka without a good number of trains due to the increased service - most towns in Karnataka are essentially guaranteed to have service to the state capital.

8 Kempegowda Bus Station (Majestic Bus Station, Kannada: ಕೆಂಪೇಗೌಡ ಬಸ್ ನಿಲ್ದಾಣ), Gandhi Nagar, City Bus Rd (metro: Kempegowda (Majestic)  Purple  Green ). One of the largest bus stands in the city, this bus stand caters to major buses on Karnataka (except Mysore Road side buses), Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Goa routes. it is also the largest intersecting point for Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), which maintains bus services within Bangalore. The bus stand is opposite the City railway station.      (updated Nov 2022)
9 Mysore Road Satellite Bus Stand (MCTC), Bapuji Nagar, Mysore Rd (Majestic: KSRTC Shuttles, BMTC 220 to 235; Market: 220 to 235 series; Shivajinagar: 222E,226N,121B; Jayanagar: 60A to L; Yeshvantapur: K-2; Jalahalli Cross: 248). One of the important bus stands of Bangalore, aimed at decongesting Majestic Bus Stand, this bus stand caters to all ordinary and Luxury services towards Mysore, as well as Interstate ordinary and Luxury services to Kerala, via Mysore, operated by Karnataka and Kerala state governments. Ordinary and Deluxe uses bound to Ooty, Coimbatore via Mysore/Kollegal also start from this place. All ordinary services operated by Tamil Nadu State Road Transport Corporation to Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Salem, Vriddachalam, Kanchipuram, Coimbatore and Trichy use this Bus stand for terminating their bus services.    (updated Nov 2022)
10 City Market. Around 2.5 km (1.6 mi) away from Majestic. Could daunt newcomers, since it is very disorganised. It is a large dirt parking lot under an overhead highway and there is not much order to where the buses park.    
11 Shantinagar (Double Road Bus Stand), K.H.Road (From Majestic: 171, all buses from 340 to 372; From Shivajinagar: 13, 13A to 13K, 27, 27E, 29,210F,G,GA,Q, K6). One of the important bus stands of Bangalore, aimed at decongesting Majestic bus stand, this bus stand caters to all Luxury services towards Tamil Nadu operated by KSRTC as well as SETC of Tamil Nadu. Some Kerala State Transport Corporation buses running via Salem to Kerala go through this terminal.    (updated Nov 2022)
12 Shivajinagar. In the north. It is neatly organised, and there is an inquiry window to find out about buses. If you are changing buses, you may have to get down on the street and walk into the bus stand to catch your next bus. You can find a large map on display here too, which you can use to find the bus number you need to take if you know the area you are going to. Route maps are also sold on the platforms.    
There are also many unofficial stops that buses will go to on request (even on deluxe buses with reserved seats, you can ask the conductor to stop at such a stop as long as it is in Bangalore/the same city as the stop on your ticket) or even let passengers book tickets from. These places do not have any station infrastructure but are usually located near landmarks, on major streets/circles/squares and of course, can be spotted by the numerous buses crowded around. One particularly useful stop is Yeswanthpur Junction, which is next to the long-distance train station of the same name as well as the Yeswanthpur metro station.
The display boards for long-distance buses bus show the destination in the local language Kannada. If you don't speak Kannada, you will likely need to get some help to get on the right bus. However, the newer Volvo buses are all equipped with electronic displays that show the destination in Kannada and English one after the other. Non-Volvo buses are being gradually retrofitted with these electronic displays; this should make bus travel much simpler if you are unfamiliar with the local language. However, there are still many of the older Ashok Leyland and even some very old Tata buses plying the roads, so it is best to go by timings or ask the conductor where the bus is heading (usually by asking the destination name like it's a question, such as "Mysore?", and hearing if the conductor responds with the same name or another one).


==== Bus companies ====
Durgamba Motors
Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC)- Operated by Govt. of Karnataka. Counters are present all over the city for reservations, list on the website.
KPN Travels - From the direction of Tamil Nadu
VRL Travels - From most places north of Bangalore
City Travels- From the direction of Tamil Nadu


=== By car ===
Driving in India can be very stressful. Lane discipline is practically non-existent, excessive honking, high vehicle density, lack of regard for traffic law, combined with razor thin passing margins are common. One ride in a taxi will most likely convince you that driving yourself is not worth the risk, so if you do want to arrive by car, you will probably want to hire a car and a driver. Cost varies, but most car and driver combinations cost ₹1,400-1,700/day. The fares for hired private taxis are usually in the multiples of 4hr/40 km (25 mi), fares for which start at around ₹450 for a non-air conditioned small car. Depending on where you are coming from, you may be able to negotiate a lower fare if the trip isn't far, and it may be a higher fare if you are travelling far and your driver has to travel back on his own time. Having an approximate idea of the fare or distance beforehand and persistent bargaining skills can lead to significant savings. Although it costs more, consider requesting an air conditioned car if you aren't used to the heat, especially in summer. An air conditioned car will also help filter out the air pollution, which is considerable, especially on congested roadways. If you want something even more special, such as a fancy car or SUV, be prepared to pay extra.


== Get around ==
Traffic in Bangalore is generally appalling: it's often ranked as one of India's most congested cities. Allow plenty of time to get around, especially anywhere near rush hour. Heavy rains often cause flooding that can bring traffic to a complete standstill.


=== By metro ===

The Namma Metro is an efficient cross-city rail service in Bangalore that provides the only realistic way to escape the traffic, but its coverage of the city remains limited. As of August 2025, there are three lines:

Green Line  Green  (Maadavara–Silk Institute)
Purple Line  Purple  (Whitefield (Kadugodi)–Challaghatta)
Yellow Line  Yellow  (Rashtreeya Vidyalaya (RV) Road-Bommasandra)
Tickets can be bought at any station. Fares depend on the number of stations you travel. Minimum fare is ₹10 and maximum is ₹90. Pick up a RuPay smart card for ₹50 to save you from the queue and get a 5% discount on the regular fare; it will also work in any other metro system across India.
There are no other concessions for seniors, women, etc. Tickets must be purchased for children above 3 feet in height (independent of age).
Use Whatsapp chat (English or Kannada) to book tickets on +91 81055 56677, for upto 6 passengers. You get a QR Code to be scanned at entry and exit gates. Beware that non-Indian cards or UPI IDs are not accepted for payment.
If you get a smart token (the single journey ticket), remember that it has to be returned at the station you get off at, so make sure not to lose it during the ride. All trains are 6-coach trains with the front part reserved to women.


=== By bus ===

Buses are cheap and usually frequent (though expensive compared to other states). But travelling on them can be very difficult if you don't know the system well. Now, most buses have digital signage alternating between the local language Kannada and English but some buses still display the old printed signs with only the route number in English, with the destination and route information written in Kannada. Of course, even with digital signage the buses can take a long time to change the displayed language, meaning that it can be easy to miss your bus. This means you will have to know what route number you need before you get on, which you can find from NammaBMTC website or Desiroutes, entering your starting point and end point on Google maps, or by asking locals.
Not all bus stops are clearly marked, so it can be a little tricky on your first trip. Groups of people standing around can be a good indicator that the bus will stop there. Also, it's a good idea to ask the driver or conductor if they stop at the stop you want to go to (a 500 and a 500Q will not go to all the same stops). Just ask the name in a questioning tone and you will get a response. Conductors (there is one on every bus and they collect fares and issue tickets - they are always in uniform) are also helpful in telling you where/when your stop is if you ask, as are fellow passengers if they frequent the route. Posted route maps of the bus system are rare, although maps are sold at the main bus terminals (Kempegowda Bus Stand and Shivajinagar). BMTC (toll-free) ☏ +1-800-425-1663.
Watch out: some bus drivers put their route sign on the bottom right side of the windshield instead of its place on the sign holder on the top of the windshield.
Buses with black display boards run within the city. Red board buses cover long-distance and go to adjoining suburbs. The ordinary city buses are white & blue or green in colour. The newer city buses tend to be blue in colour and have LED display boards. There are blue Volvo buses, called Vajra, that operate mainly on IT sector routes like Electronic City, ITPL and Outer Ring Road routes, and to tourist places like Bannerghatta National Park and weekend Services to Wonderla. They offer a comfortable air-conditioned ride at higher prices (1½ to 2 times the regular bus fare) than the regular buses (which are not air-conditioned). Unlike most other buses, the Vajras have illuminated LED display boards on the front and sides which display the destination and route information in English as well as Kannada.
BMTC also operates Vayu Vajra services to Kempegowda International Airport from various destinations across the City. KIAS-9 is the most frequent of the routes, connecting the Airport to the Majestic Bus stand.
City buses are crowded during rush hours, which are at least 7-11AM and 5-9PM (M-Sa) but one can travel with little difficulty during the daytime. Bus services usually start by 5 or 6AM and are less frequent 9:30AM–10PM and rare after 10:30PM. Traffic in Bangalore is notorious: a trip across the city can take up to 4 hr, especially during rush hour times. There are no bus lanes, so buses, cabs and cars face the same traffic jams! 
Major buses in the city have seats reserved for ladies in the front, between the front and middle doors. The first seat near the front door is reserved for ladies' senior citizens, while the first seat behind the middle door is for the physically challenged, and the seat facing the door is for senior citizens. Generally, you can board and exit the bus from either door.
It is always better to buy a daily pass if you plan to travel the whole day on the bus. The daily pass costs ₹75 (as of Feb 2025) and it comes in handy if you need to travel on several buses in a single day. Daily passes are issued by the on-duty bus conductor or at the bus stand. You need to show any Indian Photo ID Card to purchase daily-pass.  Using this pass, you can travel in any bus (other than the Vajra) for the entire day, any number of times. Senior citizens are given a 25% concession in all buses on the production of valid ID cards (e.g. passports). Children aged 4-12 are given a 50% concession. No charge for children up to 4 years of age.
Buses are available to all major localities of the city from these three bus stands. There have been a lot of developments due to the ongoing metro project as well as efforts to decongest the city. BMTC is adding more bus stations all the time. Better to check their websites for the latest situation.


=== By train ===
There are DEMU (Diesel Electric Multiple Unit) and MEMU (Mainline Electric Multiple Unit) trains run by the South Western Railway (SWR), which connect the city centre to various suburbs, especially in the IT corridor areas of Whitefield, Outer Ring Road and Electronic City. However, speeds are low and station infrastructure can be poor.


=== By auto-rickshaw ===

Auto-rickshaws (also called "auto") are everywhere at any time of day. They are green-and-yellow or black-and-yellow three wheeled contraptions. They are a fast (but unsafe) way to get around the city - in thick traffic, they are quicker than a taxi or bus.
Auto-rickshaws are supposed to charge fares as per the meter reading, which equals to ₹13 per distance kilometer, a minimum charge of ₹25 for the first 1.8 km (1.1 mi) or less, and a 50% surcharge after 10PM (called "one and a half"). They generally tend to charge on an ad-hoc basis depending on the distance of the destination, the chances of getting another customer from the mentioned locality, and their mood. You should simply refuse to board an auto where the meter is faulty or the driver refuses to use it. Saying "meter please" will usually do the trick. Drivers will give you endless excuses why they cannot use the meter. Remember that they are required by law to have a working meter and use it, and this will almost always be the cheapest for you too. If they still refuse, walk away: there are plenty of other rickshaws on the roads. In fact, drivers of rickshaws that you flag down from the streets (if practical and possible) will often be more agreeable than those waiting in stands, who demand more fares.
Tourists should be cautious when approaching auto-rickshaws at night, or during heavy rains. Chances are they will charge exorbitant rates (some drivers may demand 100% surcharge after 10PM or 11PM), but you must refuse to board in such a case. Help could be taken from the local traffic police to avail auto-rickshaws during such circumstances. If you are a visitor and do not know the route to the destination, it is a good idea to bargain and fix the fare before boarding to avoid long, convoluted routes being used by the driver - or check the route by recording a GPS track on your mobile.
Auto drivers commonly charge 1.5 rates for timings from 9PM to 6AM. For instance, if the meter reads ₹100, you are to pay ₹150. Catching autos on a normal fare at these times are tough.
Another thing to keep in mind is to be firm but not loud in an argument while travelling in the auto. Some of the less reputable drivers may team up with their friends midway to cause problems. Remember that although Bangaloreans are known for their polite and mild mannered behaviour, auto drivers are normally an exception. Some will think nothing of trying to rip you off. If in doubt, consult a local or your hotel travel desk.
If a rickshaw driver offers to show/drive you to some great places to shop, firmly refuse. A common tactic is to drive you to local shops where you will be pressured to buy Indian crafts that you probably don't want. Know your destination and insist upon it.
Rickshaw drivers are required by law to display their identification on the dashboard or the back of their seats. Refuse to get into a rickshaw that does not display one.
If an auto driver is problematic, get their identification number and report to the BBMP Control room which is empowered to withdraw their auto license. This is a very effective technique to deal with them. The BBMP control room number as of December 2009 is ☏ +91 80 22975803.
If you arrive in Bangalore via train, at the main train station there is an office near the taxis/auto-rickshaws which will print out a pre-paid receipt for your ride. The service costs ₹1, but will save you a potentially large amount of money by giving you an accurate value for your ride. This also allows you to avoid haggling with the driver, and acts as an official price agreement in the event that the driver wants to dispute the price of the ride.


=== By taxi ===

Taxis are very convenient and comfortable. Most of the vehicles are Toyota Etios, Tata Indica cars or Mahindra Logan cars, which are much safer than auto-rickshaws, and the drivers are polite. If you are alone or going to an unknown destination, you are strongly advised to choose this option, even though the rates will be double that of an auto-rickshaw. Most taxi companies will charge a flat rate of ₹150 from anywhere to anywhere within city limits. Waiting or return trips will be charged extra, as will a lot of heavy luggage. As of 2025 January, Uber, Ola and Namma Yatri have become preferred modes to book Taxi using their Mobile Apps.
Unlike many other cities, taxis are not marked with 'TAXI' signs on the top. Instead, the cars are marked with the logo of the fleet operator or taxi company on the sides of the car. Only some companies like "Meru Taxi" are marked with the sign 'Taxi' on them. Some companies have a yellow sign with an identification number (usually a letter followed by two digits) on the top. Keep in mind that these taxis cannot be hailed from the street, but have to be called by telephone. When you call, you must give the operator your location, destination, and phone number. The operator will in turn tell you the charge (or will inform you that you must go by the meter) as well as the taxi number. The taxi will come to pick you up and call you when they are close. When you go out on the street, look at the license plate for the number they gave you—it will be the last four digits of the license plate. Alternatively, look for the yellow board atop the car with the taxi's identification number.
The number plate is usually in the format "KA" followed by 01 to 05, followed by two letters, followed by a four-digit number. Taxis generally have yellow number plates with black letters.
On weekdays, especially during rush hours, be prepared to book a taxi a couple of hours in advance. Otherwise, the rush-hour traffic jams and high demand for taxis will make it difficult for a taxi to reach you in time. Private taxis are generally more reliable during this time – in many cases, radio cabs will be overbooked, and you might be unfortunate to be informed that your booking has been cancelled.
Although it can be hard for non-Indians to grasp at first, the system is actually very effective. If in doubt, ask a member of your hotel staff to help you
As early as 2015, Rapido started operating its 2 wheeler bike taxis & auto-rickshaws which are a great way to get around the city and cost slightly lesser than the traditional autos, and taxis.
Travel agents and hotels can arrange private chauffeur driven cars, and you may also hire cars to drive yourself. While expensive compared to taxis, these are the most trusted, secure, and comfortable ways to travel around the city. Driving in Bangalore can be difficult, because of poor driver discipline, but chauffeur driven services are very reasonable. These can be arranged by travel companies or online from the countries of origin.


=== By private car ===
Most taxi and auto-rickshaw drivers will be more than happy to offer you either a daily rate or an hourly rate, and take you around wherever you need to go. Alternately, your hotel or a travel company can arrange a private car.
If you find a good taxi or auto driver, this can be a great way to go for a foreigner. You'll certainly pay a lot more than if you bought individual rides, but you'll always have a driver waiting for you, and he can help with recommending local tourist sites, finding a good restaurant to eat at, and otherwise coping with day-to-day life. This can take a lot of the stress out of traveling.
Rates are generally something like ₹50–100 per hour for an auto-rickshaw, and ₹150–250 per hour for a taxi. Rates for a private car booked via the hotel will probably be more. Like everything else in India, rates are very fluid.


=== By bicycle ===
The weather in Bangalore is extremely pleasant, but the traffic is equally hectic. So if your plan is not to go towards crowded city, you can go around cycling.
Most of the sightseeing locations are within a range of 15 km (9.3 mi), so you can consider covering them on bicycle. Bicycle dealers charge ₹100-300 for entire day and you have to submit identity proof to hire bicycle.


=== By rental scooter ===
Travelling by rental scooter (light motorcycle) is increasingly common. Companies like Bounce, VOGO and YULU offer rental scooters and electric cycles (solar powered models are available), to be unlocked using an app on your smartphone. VOGO and YULU have certain hubs where the vehicle has to be parked, whereas Bounce scooters can be parked anywhere. The rates charged are comparable with those of auto rickshaws, or may be slightly higher at times. You should carry your own helmet since most of these vehicles don't come equipped. The flip side to these services is that the price charged in the end is final and cannot be bargained and sometimes these apps have poor customer services.


== See ==
Individual listings can be found in Bangalore's district articles

There are city tours that can show you the city efficiently if you are short on time. Typically, tours do not include entry fees into the attractions. Bangalore, like the rest of India, has a habit of charging foreigners a lot more than locals for attractions. For example, Tipu Sultan's Summer Palace, which is on the half-day tour, charges ₹15 for Indians/SAARC and ₹200 for non-Indians.


== Do ==
Individual listings can be found in Bangalore's district articles


=== Outdoor activities ===
Bangalore is bestowed with rock climbers, aqua sportsmen and aero sportsmen. There are several clubs, including Nature Admire, Care, Spark, KMA, Capture, Mars, Angel, Wildcraft and Adventure Works.
Camping facilities are available at Savandurga, Gunjoor Lake, Bhimeshwari, Rangaswamy betta.
The Art of Bicycle Trips organises bicycle tours in and around the city, which combine cycling with art and heritage.
The Koramangala Club in Koramangala, and the Swimming club at the National Games Village (NGV), have facilities such as swimming pools and tennis courts.
Cricket
Bangalore is also popular for playing cricket. Bangalore also has the M Chinaswamy Stadium and is home to the Royal Challengers Bangalore in the Indian Premier League. Chinaswamy Stadium also hosts international matches against teams. Chinaswamy Stadium is also known for its energetic crowd in cheering the Royal Challengers Bangalore former captain Virat Kohli and the rest of the team, especially when they win. Book tickets early especially for IPL matches because when Kohli is playing, the tickets get sold out within seconds. Always carry a water bottle while travelling to Chinaswamy Stadium. 


=== Movies ===
Take in a movie at one of the innumerable theaters around the city. Some multiplexes:

 Cinemax (Bangalore Central, Bellandur). 
 Cinepolis, Royal Meenakshi Mall, Bannerghatta Rd; ETA Mall, Binny Pete; Forum Shantiniketan, Whitefield. 
 Gopalan Cinemas, Arch Mall, Mysore Rd,. Gopalan Mall, Mysore Road; Gopalan Mall, Near Jayadeva Hospital, Bannerghatta Road ; Gopalan Mal;, Old Madras Road, Near Baiyappanhalli Metro Station 
 Inox theatre, Bangalore Central, JP Nagar, Fame Cinemas, MG Road, Forum Value Mall, Whitefield, Garuda Mall, Magrath Road, Lido Mall, Ulsoor, Mantri Square, Malleshwaram, Garuda Swagath Mall, Jayanagar. 
 PVR Cinemas, Nexus Mall, Koramangala, Orion Mall, Malleshwaram, The Phoenix Market City Mall, Whitefield; Vega Mall, JD Mara signal. 
 Bangalore Film Society. A club membership (around ₹500/year) is typically required for entrance. Foreign film series and cultural events. 


=== Spas ===
Spas and massages are very much a part of Bangalore's east-meets-west culture, new ones spring up across the city all the time. Beware that many of the "massage" classifieds in local newspapers may be fronts for prostitution. Prostitution is illegal and if caught in a raid, you may end up spending a night in the cooler before being eligible for bail. Most legitimate spas and massage parlours have detailed websites and are run professionally.


== Learn ==


=== Buddhism ===
 Choe Khor Sum Ling, Ashwini, No. 24, 1st Floor, Domlur Layout, ☏ +91 80 41486497, info@cksl.in. This Tibetan Buddhist meditation and study centre is in Domlur Layout near Shanti Sagar Restaurant on Airport Road. CKSL is a centre for the study and practice of Mahayana Buddhism following the lineage and example of Lord Buddha. The Centre, whose name means 'The Three Turnings of the Wheel of Dharma' was founded in 2003 by Lama Zopa Rinpoche under the guidance of HH the XIVth Dalai Lama. The Centre offers courses in various Buddhist meditation techniques and teachings on different aspects of Buddhism. Teachings are offered free to the public and are conducted in English or in Tibetan (with translation in English). In addition to regular teachings, every few weeks the Centre invites senior Lamas to give talks on important aspects of the Buddhist path. Such talks are also accompanied by instructions and initiations by the Lama into different meditation practices. 
 Maha Bodhi Society, 14 Kalidasa Road, Gandhinagar, ☏ +91 80 2250684, mahabodhi@vsnl.com. This temple has a very active schedule. There are teachings on the Dharma in English on the first two and last Sundays of every month from 9:30-11:30AM, while on the 3rd Sunday there is a meditation retreat. Anyone is welcome to attend. The temple also has a good library and a beautiful garden - a great place to retreat from the hustle and bustle of the metropolis outside. 
 Thubten Lekshey Ling (Dharma Subhashita), ☏ +91 98 80296930, info@lekshey.org. Nyingma Tibetan Buddhist meditation centre founded by the late His Holiness Pema Norbu (Penor) Rinpoche. The centre is close to MG Road on Ulsoor road, on the side of Manipal Centre. The centre conducts meditation classes, spiritual discourses and advanced study programs. Weekend teachings in meditation and philosophy are offered by lamas from Namdroling Monastery, Bylakupee. 


== Work ==


=== Indians ===
The best way to find employment in Bangalore is through job fairs, job portals, applying directly to companies of interest, and through headhunters.

Being referred as Silicon Valley of India, the city provides plethora of employment opportunities to youngsters from different corners of India.


=== Non-Indians ===
With a little hard work and persistence finding a job is quite possible in Bangalore. Most of the available positions are in the IT field but not necessarily IT based. Several expats do marketing, quality assurance, accent training and translation among other things. All jobs in India require an employment visa which must be obtained abroad and sponsored by the hiring company in India. In general, the salary for expats is very high compared to the local Indian wage. The best resource for jobs is through the expat community. Ask around but a good place to meet expats is the Sunday brunches at the 5-star hotels or at the numerous coffee shops in and around the MG Road area.


== Buy ==

Individual listings can be found in Bangalore's district articles
Bangalore provides a wide range of options for shoppers. One can buy many things ranging from clothing to electronic goods and vehicles. Being an IT city, Bangalore provides all kind of services but one might find things to be costlier.
Many visitors come to Bangalore searching only for sandalwood carvings and silk saris and so miss out on the true Bangalore shopping experience.


=== Boutiques ===
Apart from the numerous malls that have taken Bangalore by storm, the essential element and soul of the city comes through in its myriad small and unique boutiques that are all over the city, usually tucked away though. Have tried to list the must check out stores.

 Chilli Billi, ☏ +91 92 4179 9105. Great for women's westernwear, especially the dresses, good collection of bags, shoes and jewellery. They also offer home decor solutions. 
 President's Groom Concepts, B.v.k.iyengar Rd and Kamraj Rd, ☏ +91 80 4147 0910. Two menswear fashion stores. Fine fabrics for made-to-order and a large ready-to-wear collection. Bespoke suits and made to order clothing including tuxedos, business wear to traditional Indian kurtas and sherwanis. 


=== Electronics ===
The Croma electronics showroom is opposite Lifestyle Mall. eZone, Reliance Digital, Pai, Sony, Panasonic electronics showrooms are all within the kilometre from here. So this is the ideal location if you want to do a survey before making your next expensive LCD/LED TV purchase.


=== Markets ===
The traditional markets have mom-and-pop stores that sell everything from fruits, vegetables, groceries to electronics, music, and mobile phones.
Smaller but more lively traditional markets can be found in residential areas such as Gandhi Bazaar, N R Colony, Banashankari, Malleswaram, Jayanagar, JP Nagar & Shivajinagar.
For other food options, you can do your grocery at Nature's Basket or Spar, More, FoodWorld, options are huge, all on the 80 ft (24 m) Road. At the 1st block you can find grocery shops more suited for the local residents, if you want it the traditional way!


=== Shopping malls ===
Malls typically have higher-end stores retailing apparel, footwear, and consumer electronics. Many malls also have food courts (with international cuisine) and movie theatres. Finding a parking spot for your car may not be easy though, especially on weekends.
The heart of the new mall shopping district is on Victoria Road, with malls like Garuda Mall, Bengaluru Central and Globus, all within easy walking distance.


== Eat ==
Individual listings can be found in Bangalore's district articles
Bangalore has a wide variety of food options. Foreigners will want to look for cleanliness in choosing a place to eat. Also don't expect the exterior to be too fancy, observe the cleanliness of the inside and the servers when choosing a place to eat! Eating options include high end restaurants to chains to temples to mom and pop shops and of course street vendors! Restaurants usually label if they serve only vegetarian (veg or pure veg) or both veg and non-veg cuisine. If you haven't been in India long, it is safer to take bottled water. But juices and other drinks are usually OK.
There are also hundreds of young coconut and sugarcane juice stands! A nice refresher as you go around town! Both are good for keeping cool and energized. A coconut goes for ₹25-30 (some stands may have smaller coconuts for ₹10-15). Sugar cane juice runs ₹10-15 per cup.
Bangalore is far from the sea, and as such the quality of seafood can vary. Some of the higher end and popular seafood places manage this well, but foreign travellers may want to tread a bit carefully.
Foreigners might want to only drink bottled water and eat only chutneys that are made with bottled or filtered water. Also, beef is forbidden to be on the menu in Karnataka restaurants.
The 80 Feet Road is the Eat Street of Koramangala. Pizza Hut, Domino's, KFC, Taco Bell, Au Bon Pain are all found here. There are also many non-chains serving local Indian cuisine. Chandni Chowk is a great option if you want the rural Punjabi dhaba experience.
Wisdom Cafe, near the AlienWare showroom is a really cosy place to have some snacks or lunch. So is the Hole in the Wall cafe, on the back street behind Maharaja Hotel. Serves great coffee and English breakfast. So does Cafe Terra, near Wipro park crossing. Adjacent to it is a really popular food joint called Little Home. It serves nice North Indian food at a very reasonable price. It's really popular with the young working populace. Naturals Ice cream parlour is a hit with the hip crowd; on weekend nights you may find queues outside.


=== Chains ===

 The Adiga's chain. Restaurants to the south of Bangalore. Prominent among them are in: Jayanagar 4th Block, take the road facing BHS First Grade College, Basavanagudi. 
 Beijing Bites. 11AM-3:30PM, 7PM-11PM. Chain restaurant inspired by Chinese & Thai cuisines, spread across Bangalore. ₹200-₹400. 
 Kamat Yatrinivas, Majestic; All around the city. Authentic Mangalorean meals. 
 Mast Kalandar, All around the city. Very nice North India cuisine. It is very reasonably priced. 
 Nagarjuna Chimney, Residency Rd; Jayanagar 3rd Block (near Old Galaxy Theatre; near ICICI Bank). Possibly have a few more branches elsewehere in Bangalore. The biryani is great, as are their meals which are served ritually on a banana leaf. Reach early for lunch, for there are always hordes waiting. 
 Upaahara Darshini, Jayanagar 3rd Block; DVG Road, Gandhi Bazaar. One of Bangalore's oldest food joints. Amazing dosas. 
 Corner House, Residency Rd, BTM Rd, Koramangala, Airport Rd, Whitefield Rd, Marthahalli and Shivananda Circle, ☏ +91 80 2558 3262. One of the best ice cream parlours offering a variety of treats. Their famed 'Death by Chocolate' (popularly known as DBC) is a must for all chocolate lovers and has attained a cult status. Can be tricky to find a spot during peak times and you may find yourself being 'encouraged' by the staff to leave quickly once you do. 
 Kanti Sweets. KG Rd, Majestic, Malleswaram Circle, RT Nagar. Very good samosas, kachoris and North Indian sweets like rasmalai. Rapidly expanding chain, so there are plenty of branches all over the city now, which serve parathas and other food items as well. The main branch in Majestic is the best, and serves only samosas, kachoris and sweets. ₹10-50 per head. 
 Nandini. The Andhra fast food chain serves some excellent biriyani and chicken dishes. 
 New Shanti Sagar, 80 Foot Rd. This is a reasonably reliable chain of vegetarian south Indian restaurants. Branches scattered all over the city, notably in Koramangala Jayanagar, Domlur. ₹50-200. 
 The Rameshwaram Cafe. A well-known restaurant chain famous for its extra crispy ghee dosas. Standing room only and hugely popular, all food is made to order so at peak meal times you may need to wait for an hour or longer. (updated Sep 2024)
 Savera Tea Shop. 24 hr tea shops near Russell Market in Shivajinagar and on MG Rd. Good place to go for a cup of tea in the dead of the night. Serves tea, Suleimani (honey+lemon) tea and a variety of biscuits. ₹3-15 
 Shezan, Lavelle Rd and Cunningham Rd, ☏ +91 80 2224 9319, +91 80 2224 9667. Indian, Chinese and Continental cuisines with a good menu choice where beef, fish, prawn, mutton and chicken meat are available. Excellent steaks. 
 SLV chain. Prominent among them are in: Banashankari 2nd stage, opposite BDA park and the one in J.P.Nagar 2nd Phase near Ragigudda Temple 
 Sree Krishna. Fast food a little further from the road connecting Lalbagh Westgate with Basavanagudi. 
 Meghana Foods, 1st Cross Road, 124, 1st A cross Rd, KHB Colony, 5th Block, Koramangala (near Jyoti Nivas College). Meghana, meaning rain, is a restaurant that was started in the year 2006 serving authentic Andhra style food. There are five branches in the city. (updated Aug 2022)


==== Ice cream parlours ====
 Corner House, 1 Airport Rd; All around the city, ☏ +91 96861 91973. Carlton Towers. This is the place for foodies looking for the best desserts in town. The "brown bomb" and "hot fudge" are a must have. Not a place for calorie counters. 
 ibaco, Basavanagudi; Basaveshwara Nagar; BTM Layout; Coles Road; Indira Nagar; Jayanagar; Koramangala; Mantri Square; Phoenix Mall; RR Nagar; Wood Street; Yelahanka. 
 Naturals Ice Cream, Indiranagar; Koramangala; Sarjapur; Dollars Colony, RMV Extension; St. Marks Road; Jayanagar; Basaveshwaranagar; Frazer Town; Malleshwaram; Arekere. 
 Richie Rich Ice Cream Parlour, ☏ +91 80 2226 9655. Three branches around the city, with a variety of natural ice creams, softies and many fast food items such as pav bhaji and vada pav.. Try the 'Elvis Presley' specialty or the traffic jam or 'Richie Rich' special. The 3 locations are on St. Marks Rd, Airport Rd. and Kumara Park East. 
 Swensen's, Mantri Square, Malleswaram; 80 ft. Road, Koramangala; 60 ft. Road, Sahakara Nagar; Ascendas Park Square Mall, Whitefield; Bangalore Central, Bellandur; BDA Complex, HSR Layout; J.P.Nagar (Marenhalli); Jayanagar, ☏ +91 80 4117 8235. The ultimate sundae experience. 


=== Regional cuisine ===
 Kadambam, Bull Temple Road, near Ramakrishna Ashram; West of Chord Rd (near Modi Eye Hospital in Rajajinagar). 
 Kamat Yatrnivas, Gandhinagar; Bull Temple Road, Basavanagudi. Serves special N Karnataka meals with jowar (Sorghum) rotis. They now have a branch on Bull Temple Road where they have local artists perform when you have dinner. 
 Maiya's, 30th Cross Rd, Jayanagar 4 Block; 11th Cross Malleswaram; Sajjan Rao Circle, Basavanagudi, ☏ +91 80 4341 4400. Features a great amount of South Indian cuisine, and then lets you buy some more to take home. And in case that you don't like it, there are more places upstairs that have different cuisine (Jayanagar branch only). 
 MTR 1924, Mini Forest, JP Nagar; St. Marks Road; Indiranagar;. New age chain from the folks who run Mavalli Tiffin Rooms (MTR) on Lalbagh Road. 
 Nalapaka, Rajajinagar. Serves special N Karnataka meals with jowar (Sorghum) rotis, Holige (stuffed sweet rotis). Known for the distinctive Butter Dosa and different varieties of coconut chutneys. 
 South Indies, Indiranagar; Infantry Rd, ☏ +91 80 4163 6363, +91 80 4163 6362. An upscale South Indian restaurant in Bangalore, that gives you a taste of authentic south Indian cuisine in an ambience that is equally tasteful. 
 UpSouth, Mantri Square, Mallesharam; Orion Mall, Malleshwaram; Ecospace, Bellandur; 60 ft. Road, Koramangala, ☏ +91 80 2266 7378. A quick service restaurant with an upbeat, contemporary look. Be it the vibrant, youthful interiors or the presentation of food in the form of combos, Upsouth is all set to break the dull clutter. 


=== South Indian cuisine ===
Bangalore has hundreds of fast food joints serving South Indian vegetarian food. They usually are identified with small round steel tables and diners standing around them having food. Dosas, idlis, vadas, curd rice, vegetable pulao, rice with sambar, lemon rice are usually standard fare. There are numerous established South Indian joints that serve authentic dosas and idlis such as MTR, CTR, Vidyarthi Bhavan and so on! Make sure to try out the classic Benne Masala Dose and a cup of filter coffee at one of these places. Quality widely varies, since most of them cater to working people.


=== Dhabas ===
There are a few dhabas catering to all tastes. South and North Indian fare is available at most places and is clean and cheap. A special mention is the green park dhaba on the outskirts on Bellary Road and Golconda Chimney on the old airport road in Marathahalli, opposite Shankara Eye Hospital. Golconda Chimmney has been renovated and has A/C and non-A/C sections, the non-veg spread is simply amazing, but the rates are steep if you have a traditional dhaba in mind. The ambience is nice. Try the chicken kathi rolls and the biryani.


== Drink ==
Individual listings can be found in Bangalore's district articles
In Koramangala, Legends of Rock is near the Pizza Hut on 80 ft. Road.
Also great is the Jimi's Beer Cafe nearby, has a really nice ambience.
Costa Coffee, Barista and CCD have their presence near Maharaja Hotel. Young working people spend a lot of their time here. You can get a truly multi national multi cultural feeling as there are several restaurants serving Spanish, Italian, Thai, Chinese, Indian, Mexican food. Hence, it is really popular with expatriates.
The area around Jyoti Nivas college is a popular hangout for the college going crowd, with a lot of eateries and cafes in the area. This area has a very hip/ fashionable feel to it.


=== Cafes ===
 Barista Lavazza, ☏ +91 80 4207 5023, information@barista.co.in. A cafe chain established in 1997 and more commonly known as Barista and now owned by Lavazza. The chain has more than 200 stores in India. It is found all over Bangalore with 32 retail outlets, most of them near IT corporate offices. 
 Coffee World, ☏ +91 80 4111 2111, +91-9845296898. Can be found all over Bangalore. 
 Costa Coffee, ☏ +91 80 4348 8888. British coffeehouse chain. Koramangala 4th Block, in Indranagar and another opposite Goethe-Institut, RMZ Eco Space on Sarjapur Rd and Sigma Mall, Brookesfield, Cunningham Rd, JNC Rd, and Jayanagar. Besides Coffee, Costa lays heavy emphasis on food with sandwiches, paninis, tostatos, pastas, many kinds of desserts, English muffins, and a wide variety of cakes. 
 Travel on Menu Café. Popular for TOM Coffee. 


=== Pubs and bars ===
The pub scene is concentrated around the commercial business district in the heart of Bangalore. MG Road, Brigade Road, Residency Road, St. Marks Road, and Church Street have numerous pubs. Happy hours is typically between 6-8PM and at most pubs, the time for the last order is around 10:30PM.
Most bars and pubs in the city are somewhat upscale, but many inexpensive restaurants serve beer and good quality food.
If you just need to go out you could go to one of the bars, but if you would like to have a great social experience and are in the city for a considerable period of time consider becoming a member of one of the social expat clubs in the city. The IVES Club offers a meeting for its members every Saturday at one or the other popular nightclubs in Bangalore; its members are interns, expats, volunteers and exchange students residing in the city.
Formerly having a reputation as the Pub City of India, Bangalore's buoyant pub and nightlife has been curtailed by police and regulatory action, and all bars and nightclubs must now close no later than midnight.


== Sleep ==

Individual listings can be found in Bangalore's district articles
A large number of budget hotels near KSR railway station are crowded in the area around the Dargah Tawakkal Mastan, O.T.C. Road, Chickpet, Near Sreenivasa Hospital, 1 km (0.62 mi) from the Majestic bus station. Ask for the Brahmins Bakery area.
If you are free for an hour, you can just go around the Majestic theatre and the Kempe Gowda Bus Station and look for a budget hotel yourself, as there are many on small streets and roads around this place. Or, you can even trust (to some extent) a broker who voluntarily offers help, but be sure you take a good look at the rooms before you pay any money to the lodge and the broker. But there is a wrong notion in the minds of people in and around Majestic that whenever you go in pairs, they tend to look at you with a wrong and suspicious look. If coming with family, especially newly married, avoid the Majestic area.


== Stay safe ==
Bangalore is a relatively safe city at that time. However, most of Bangalore practically shuts down a little before midnight, even very safe residential areas can be very desolate by 11PM. In the morning, people start getting out from 5AM or 6AM, but it's usually still dark outside at that time, so exercise caution if you are in an unfamiliar area.
Some of the lower-income areas can be somewhat unsafe once it gets dark. Exercising caution and good sense will increase your chances of staying safe.

It is not advisable to walk alone along deserted alleyways or lanes after dark. Avoid doing so in areas that you are not sure are reasonably safe.
Avoid using an auto-rickshaw if the driver is not alone, especially at night.
Do not flaunt jewellery, high-end mobile phones, laptops, watches etc.
Do not withdraw large amounts of cash from ATMs in deserted areas.
Beware of pickpockets in crowded areas such as exhibitions, cricket matches, train stations, etc.
If you are returning late from a party, it is advisable to pre-book cabs through reputed companies such as Meru, Ola, or Uber, as against flagging down an auto-rickshaw on the road
Exercise caution in stopping to help if you see a broken-down vehicle at night, especially on lonely streets and in cases where you will be outnumbered
Rising incomes have brought an influx of people, including white and blue-collar immigrants, leading to disparities in earnings between locals, casual labour immigrants and expatriates (people from other parts of the state and also from other countries), which arguably has resulted in a substantial increase in crime rates.


=== Police ===
The Bengaluru City Police (BCP) is the police force serving the metropolis. While some police officers are honest and helpful, others may be corrupt and unhelpful.
For police assistance during an emergency dial 100. For non-emergencies or to report a crime, visit the nearest police station.


== Stay healthy ==
Bangalore is a clean city (compared to other major Indian cities such as Mumbai and Kolkata) and epidemics are rare. However, foreign tourists should be cautious about consuming water and eating at roadside stalls. It is recommended to use bottled water if the source of drinking water is unknown.
It is recommended to use mosquito repellents, either as a cream applied on the skin (ask for Odomos at local medical stores) or in the electronic form, during the evenings.
It is always a good idea to carry a minimal medicine kit with medicines for common diseases and conditions. Most of the international medicines are available in medical stores, though the name and brand may be different. So, it is advisable to do some research on the alternatives or consult a general physician, if needed.
Ambulances can be requested by calling 108.


=== Pharmacies ===
Pharmacies are dime a dozen and you should not have any problem locating one. You do not need any prescription for Modern Medicine Over the Counter drugs, or for ayurvedic medicine (proprietary and traditional), which are available for most common ailments like fever, headache, etc., But you will need prescription for other medicines, which are categorized as Schedule H drugs.


=== Hospitals ===

1 Aster CMI Hospital (after Bellary Rd/Hebbal Flyover continue straight onto NH44 then take slight left and then turn left), ☏ +91 80-43420100, customercare.aster@asterhospital.com. 24 hours. A super-speciality hospital, part of Aster DM Healthcare group. It has contemporary state-of-the-art facilities accommodating close to 500 beds and offers comprehensive primary care to quaternary care services with Centres of Excellence in Cardiac Sciences, Neurosciences, Gastroenterology Sciences, Surgery and Allied Specialties, Integrated Liver Care, Organ Transplant, Urology and Nephrology, Orthopaedics, Women’s Health, and Child & Adolescent Health.    (updated May 2017)
2 Manipal Hospital Whitefield, Whitefield Rd (metro: Pattandur Agrahara  Purple ), toll-free: 1800 3001 4000.     (updated Jun 2023)
3 Sri Sathya Sai Super Speciality Hospital (metro: Sathya Sai Hospital  Purple ). A hospital with an impressive architectural marvel.    (updated Jun 2023)
4 Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre (VIMS), #82, Nallurahalli, Whitefield (metro: Nallurahalli  Purple ). One of India's largest super speciality hospitals.      (updated Jun 2023)


== Connect ==
The area code for Bangalore is 080. When calling from overseas, dial +91 80 XXXX XXXX (if the phone is a land-line connection). If you don’t have an Indian phone number, it is strongly recommended that you get a pre-paid calling card if you plan on using your phone frequently. Because of new government regulations, you need a photocopy of your passport (visa and the ID pages), a color photo, and proof of local address (in Bangalore) when buying a pre-paid card. If you do not have the required paperwork, it is recommended that you ask a local friend to buy a pre-paid card on your behalf. Pre-paid cards are sold in a few of the shops that sell mobile equipment.
Public telephones are a good option and are available widely. Most shops that offer public phones sport easily visible "STD/ISD/PCO" signages. More often than not, public pay-phones are post-pay and there will be a person at the shop to take the payments. Check the bill generated from the machine and make the payment accordingly. Payments are always in Indian Rupees.


=== Cellular ===
Mobile phone coverage in the city is excellent. There are many service providers (Airtel, BSNL, Reliance Jio, Idea-Vodafone) offering a wide variety of plans. If you are planning on travelling around outside the metropolitan area it might be a good idea to buy a mobile phone and use one of the pre-paid plans to get yourself connected whilst you are still in the city. However, there may be network congestion in certain areas and hence, slow internet connections.


=== Internet ===
There are plenty of Internet centres which charge between ₹10-₹25 per hr. If you have a laptop with Wi-Fi connection, free internet services are available at some malls, restaurants, and hotels. However, free public Wi-Fi is not the norm. MG Road and Brigade road now has street-wide free Wi-Fi. Hop on to the Namma Wi-Fi wireless network and register using your mobile number for a one-time password for internet access.
High speed USB data cards are very common and all telecom providers offer these over-the-counter at their stores. Typically need some proof of identity and address to activate these. Nowadays, it is easier to just buy a sim card with 4G data and host a WiFi hotspot.


== Cope ==


=== Consulates ===
 5 Canada, WTC, 26/1, Dr. Rajkumar Road, Rajajinagara 1st R Block, Yeswanthpur.    (updated Jun 2025)
 6 Denmark, 142, 4th Main Rd, Defence Colony, Indiranagar.    (updated Jun 2025)
 7 France, 21, Palace Road, Chakravarty Layout, Vasanth Nagar.    (updated Jun 2025)
 8 Germany, 2nd & 3rd floor, Cash Pharmacy Bldg, Residency Road, Shanthala Nagar, Richmond Town (1.5 km (0.93 mi) from metro: MG Road  Purple ), ☏ +91 80 4530 0100. 8AM-3PM.    (updated Jun 2025)
 9 Mexico, 7th Cross Road, Shanthala Nagar, Richmond Town.    (updated Jun 2025)
 10 Israel, Murphy Rd, Corporation Colony, Halasuru.    (updated Jun 2025)
 11 Japan, Queen's Rd, Shivajinagar.    (updated Jun 2025)
 12 United Kingdom, 3, Ali Asker Rd, Fair Field Layout, Vasanth Nagar.    (updated Jun 2025)


=== Currency exchange ===
You will not find money exchange kiosks/counters in all parts of Bangalore, because Bangalore is not a primary destination for most tourists nor is it the entry point for most tourists entering the region. However, most banks offer currency exchange in all their branch offices, as do some travel agencies. Exchange rates can vary somewhat, so it is advisable to shop around. Typically, travel agencies will offer a better exchange rate than banks. Some "extraoficial" agencies can be found around the commercial area of M.G. Road. Those will offer a good rate, without asking to take a copy of your passport. Price could be bargained. Always double-check the bank notes once the exchange is made.


== Go next ==
Anshi National Park  or Kali Tiger Reserve (500 km (310 mi) from Bangalore — River rafting and Kayaking is offered at Kali River near Dandeli.
Badami  — A town in Bagakot district known for magnificent temple architecture of the Chalukya period. World Heriage site Pattadakal and Aihole are nearby to Badami.
Bandipur National Park (225 km (140 mi)) — Famous for elephants, tigers, and precious sandalwood trees. It is spread over an area of 890 square kilometres (340 sq mi) and is considered one of the most spectacular wildlife sanctuaries.
Bhadra Tiger Reserve  (280 km (170 mi)) — A tiger reserve on the catchment area of river Bhadra.
Nagarhole National Park or Rajiv Gandhi National Park (220 km (140 mi))
Nandi Hills (57 km (35 mi)) — provides a panoramic view of sunrise and sunset. One of the ways to go there is to go on a bicycle. The hill station has become a popular tourist spot because it is blessed with a pleasant environment throughout the year.
Srirangapatna, Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary, Mysore and Chamarajanagar come in a straight line. You will need half a day each for the first two places and two days each for the next two places. South of that line, around 34 km (21 mi) east from Mysore, Keshava Temple of Somanathapura offers marvellous architecture and stone sculptures.