This article only covers the City of Brisbane. See Greater Brisbane for the four other local government areas that make up Greater Brisbane.

Brisbane is the state capital of Queensland. Large enough to be cosmopolitan yet small enough to be friendly and accessible, Brisbane is a 'garden metropolis', famous for its leafy, open spaces and the pleasant pace of life that unfolds between the zig-zags of its iconic river. Brisbane's year-round warm climate, spectacular scenery, pleasant locals and world-class facilities have been the drawcards for many domestic and international visitors, making Brisbane the fastest-growing city in Australia. Despite this rapid development, it maintains a youthful enthusiasm and is considered one of the more laid-back and forward-thinking cities in the country. 


== Understand ==
The Greater Brisbane region has a population of about 2.2 million people and is Australia's third-largest city.
Brisbane, colloquially known as Brissie (pronounced Briz-ee), gained international exposure through multiple international sporting events and political summits, including the upcoming 2032 Summer Olympics. It is also known as the main setting of the animated kids TV series Bluey.
Tipping is not part of the local culture. A simple 'thank you' is sufficient for good service.


=== History ===
For many thousands of years prior to British settlement, the Brisbane area was inhabited by the Turrbal and Jagera Aboriginal people. They knew the area that is now the central business district as Mian-jin, meaning "place shaped as a spike". The Australian English phrase "hard yakka" – meaning "hard work" – comes from the Jagera people, and is certainly what the British settlers faced in Brisbane's humid subtropical climate.
The Moreton Bay area was explored by English navigator Matthew Flinders. On 17 July 1799, Flinders landed at what is now known as Woody Point which he named "Red Cliff Point", now Redcliffe after the red-coloured cliffs visible from the bay. In 1823, Governor of New South Wales Sir Thomas Brisbane instructed that a new northern penal settlement be developed, intended to house dangerous prisoners in a remote location and an exploration party led by John Oxley further explored Moreton Bay. The original penal settlement was established in Redcliffe but was later moved to a location further down the bay where freshwater supplies were more reliable. Oxley named this new settlement "Brisbane" in honour of the Governor.
A series of major immigration events took place in the following decades which brought with it strong industry and commercial development in the region. In 1838, non-convict free settlers moved to the area and pushed to close the jail and to release the land in the area. In 1859, a gold rush led to the establishment of the colony of Queensland with Brisbane as its capital even though Brisbane was not incorporated as a city until 1902. In 1925, the Queensland State Parliament created the City of Brisbane Act that set up a single government for the city of Brisbane, still the largest metropolitan authority in Australia and one of the largest in the world by area. Over twenty small municipalities and shires were amalgamated to form the City of Brisbane. 1930 was a significant year for Brisbane with the completion of Brisbane City Hall, then the city's tallest building and the Shrine of Remembrance in ANZAC Square which has since become Brisbane's main war memorial. These historic buildings along with the Story Bridge which opened in 1940 are key landmarks that help define the architectural character of the city.
During World War II, Brisbane became central to the Allied campaign when the AMP Building - now MacArthur Central was used as the South West Pacific headquarters for General Douglas MacArthur, chief of the Allied Pacific forces. In 1942, Brisbane was the site of a violent clash between visiting US military personnel, Australian servicemen and civilians which resulted in one death and several injuries. This incident became known colloquially as the Battle of Brisbane.
Postwar Brisbane had developed a "big country town" stigma, an image the city's politicians and marketers were very keen to remove but despite steady growth, Brisbane's development was punctuated by infrastructure problems. The State Government began a major program of change and urban renewal beginning with the central business district and inner suburbs. Trams in Brisbane were a popular mode of public transport until the network was closed in 1969 leaving Melbourne as the last Australian city to operate a tram network.
The 1974 Brisbane flood was a major disaster which temporarily crippled the city. During this era, Brisbane grew and modernised rapidly becoming a destination of interstate migration. Some of Brisbane's popular landmarks were lost sometimes demolished in controversial circumstances with much media coverage and public protest. Major public works included the Riverside Expressway, the Gateway Bridge and later the redevelopment of South Bank after the city hosted World Expo '88 starting with the Queensland Art Gallery and Performing Arts Centre.
In subsequent years there has been strong immigration into Brisbane and the surrounding region, both domestically and internationally with large influxes from Asia, the Europe, New Zealand and Polynesia. This was driven by cheaper house prices than in other Australian cities, a pleasant climate and good employment opportunities, especially within the mining and tourism sectors. Brisbane's population growth has exceeded the national average every year since 1990 at an average rate of around 2.2% per year.
Since 2000, Brisbane has gone from drought to flooding rains. In the mid-2000s, lower dam levels led to severe water restrictions for residents. The campaign to lower water usage was so successful that the city now boasts some of the lowest average water use per resident of any developed city in the world. These days you're not likely to find the tap dry or see any visible signs of the shortage. However out of respect for the locals, keep your showers relatively brief, try your best to conserve water and expect the locals to be horrified if you walk away from a running tap.
A number of extremely wet summers broke the drought and culminated in the January 2011 flood which devastated the city. In typical Queensland fashion, one of the largest volunteer workforces ever amassed: over 100,000 Brisbane locals and Queensland volunteers descended on the city to aid in the clean-up, earning the nickname the "Mud Army" and allowing the city to return to business just a week after the flood. The Mud Army were honoured with the naming of a new CityCat Ferry, the "Spirit of Brisbane" and then Prime Minister of Australia Julia Gillard described Brisbane residents as "the best of humankind", gifting a monument to the city to honour the volunteers.


=== Climate ===

When the wet season hits the northern Australian tropics, Brisbane experiences hot and clear summer days with stunning afternoon thunderstorms. Brisbane does not experience the distinct "four seasons" like the other Australian capital cities of Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide. When winter arrives towards the southern capital cities, temperatures are sent into the low tens (°C), while Brisbane's climate stays mostly dry and sunny, with daytime temperatures usually remaining above 20°C.

Summer (December–February) humidity is high with daytime average temperatures around 30 °C (86 °F) and nighttime lows around 22 °C (72 °F). Occasional heat waves can raise the temperature in excess of 33 °C (91 °F) and keep overnight lows around or above 24.5 °C (76.1 °F) all night long, however these are not common. Given the humid climate, an air temperature of 33 °C (91 °F) can feel like 35.5 °C (95.9 °F) given the humidity. Just about any outdoor activity you do at the height of a regular summer day in Brisbane will leave you bathed in sweat. Loose-fitting clothing that protects you from the sun is appropriate attire for most casual activities, and air-conditioning will assure you a comfortable night's sleep or ride on public transport. Summer storms with hail and heavy rainfall are common in afternoons on hot, humid days. They usually pass quickly and often put on a good lightning show. Sunrise is as early as 4:45AM, and the latest sunsets are around 6:45PM.
Autumn (March–May) sees a cool change in Brisbane with average daytime temperatures between 20 and 30°C. Most tourists not used to a humid climate will find this the best time to visit Brisbane, as the humidity lowers and the region shifts into a more comfortable, dry and sunny weather pattern, perfect for outdoor activities. Night-time temperatures usually drop to 10-20°C, with ambient heat from the day still radiating from the ground, keeping the early evening still warm and comfortable, though a light jacket may be required later at night.
Winter (June–August) signals the region's dry season, with Brisbane experiencing cool, sunny, cloudless days. Temperatures typically go up to 25°C during the day with night-time temperatures rarely dropping below 5°C. The early-morning chill usually disappears by mid-morning and most of the daylight hours are relatively warm, however it is still recommended to have something warm to wear as this is not always the case. The eastern suburbs tend to be cooler as sea breezes blow in from the bay. Daylight hours run from 6:35AM to 5PM.
Spring (September–November) sees the revitalisation of the city with warmer days and fresh sea breezes coming in from the bay. Weather is similar to Autumn months, with increasing humidity as summer draws closer.
More detailed information on Brisbane climate and weather is available online at the Australian Bureau of Meteorology.
Sunburn is a risk in this part of the world; see our Sunburn and sun protection article and #Sun safety below.


=== Visitor centre ===
1 Brisbane Visitor Information Centre and Booking Centre, Queen Street Mall, ☏ +61 7 3006 6290. M–Th 9AM–5:30PM, F 9AM–7PM, Sa 9AM–5PM, Su and public holidays 9:30AM–4:30PM; closed Good Friday and Christmas.    (updated Apr 2019). The Brisbane Visitor Information Centre, housed in the heritage-listed (former) Regent Theatre, is staffed by volunteers and knowledgeable city workers who provide free booking services and help you plan your itinerary for dining, accommodation, and activities in Brisbane.


== Get in ==


=== By plane ===
Brisbane can be accessed by plane via Brisbane Airport (BNE IATA), or via the less convenient but often cheaper Gold Coast Airport.

Main article: Brisbane Airport
Brisbane Airport has direct flights from all Australian capitals and many Queensland centres. Major domestic carriers include Virgin Australia, Jetstar, and Qantas. The airport is serviced by many regional airlines and it is possible to fly daily to most Asian centres (and on to Europe), the United States and New Zealand, without flying via Sydney or Melbourne.
You can travel from the Gold Coast Airport to Brisbane by taking the bus to Robina and transferring to the train.


=== By ship ===
The 1 Brisbane International Cruise Terminal is located in Pinkenba.


=== By train ===
Long distance rail services both arrive and depart from 2 Roma Street Station in the inner city. Services to New South Wales operated by NSW TrainLink depart from Platform 2. Services to the rest of Queensland depart from Platform 10.

NSW TrainLink operates a daily return rail service from Sydney, with onward connections to Melbourne and Canberra. Unfortunately, the journey from Sydney takes around 14 hours and due to scheduling issues, the train leaves at 2:41PM at Sydney Central Station and arrives between 4–5AM at Roma St Station.
Queensland Rail operates services to most centres in Queensland.
Luxury train operator Journey Beyond operates the Great Southern from Adelaide during the summer months from December to January. The train takes a circuitous routing along the coast of Victoria and New South Wales, and is more expensive than flying, meaning that it is designed for luxury travellers with a lot of time and money on their hand, rather than as a practical travel option. The Great Southern arrives at the 3 Brisbane Freight Terminal in Acacia Ridge, not Roma Street Station in the CBD that other long-distance trains use, but coaches from the terminal to the CBD are included in the ticket price.


=== By bus ===
Most long distance bus services operate from level 3 of the 4 Brisbane Transit Centre near Roma Street Station in the inner city.

Premier Motor Service offers services between Sydney and Brisbane and Brisbane and Cairns.
Greyhound Australia link other interstate capitals to Brisbane via their extensive national network. In particular they operate regular services between Brisbane and Sydney, Brisbane and Toowoomba then onward to Roma and between Brisbane and Cairns. Pick-up is available from Brisbane Airport on some services.
Murrays Coaches operate services between Brisbane and Toowoomba and onwards to the small town of Miles, west of Toowoomba. Pick up is available from Brisbane Airport on some services.
Bus Queensland operate services under Government contract between Brisbane and many rural and remote areas. Key routes serviced by this company include services between Brisbane and Charleville via Toowoomba and between Brisbane and Mt Isa.


=== By car ===
Visitors from southern states can reach Brisbane by either the New England and Cunningham or Pacific Highways.

The Bruce Highway (A1) connects the northern coast of Queensland to Brisbane.
The Pacific Motorway (M1) connects Brisbane to the Gold Coast continues south along the New South Wales coast.
The Ipswich Motorway (M2) connects to Ipswich and surrounding Western Brisbane areas.
The Warrego Highway (A2) links Brisbane to the west through the Lockyer Valley, Toowoomba and the Darling Downs.
The Cunningham Highway (A15) links Brisbane to Southern Queensland and Central western New South Wales.


== Get around ==


=== By public transport ===
Translink is responsible for all trains, buses, ferries and trams in South East Queensland and regional urban buses. The website and app can be used to plan a journey, including full navigation and real time updates. Apple Maps and Google Maps provide a similar experience.


==== Fares ====
A 50-cent flat fare applies to any journey, regardless of mode or distance, with a limit of 3 transfers. The only exception is an Airtrain journey to or from Brisbane Airport which costs $22.30 (June 2025), with a 15% discount for booking online. Refer to the website for other discounted fares. You can be fined $261 for travelling without a valid fare.
There are three ways to pay for your journey:

Contactless credit or debit card. A Mastercard or Visa is accepted, including those in a digital wallet like Apple Pay or Google Pay. Your fare is deducted from your card as you touch on and touch off each mode of transport. Trains and trams have fare gates or distinctive pink validators to touch before you board and after you alight. Buses and ferries have validators to touch as you board and alight. A failure to touch off each mode of transport will result in a fixed fare of $2.50.
Go card. A go card is available at train station ticket counters, busway and tram fare machines, and selected newsagents and convenience stores. The card requires a $10 deposit. The card can be topped up with travel credit at the same locations, including train station fare machines. The maximum travel credit you can top up is $250. Refunding the deposit and travel credit can be a hassle. If you last topped up using cash it can be processed at Brisbane Airport and selected newsagents and convenience stores. If you last topped up using credit or debit card it can only be processed via an Australian bank account transfer.
Paper ticket. A paper ticket is available at train station ticket counters and fare machines, and busway and tram fare machines.


==== Trains ====
Brisbane has a sizeable rail network. Most services are through running, travelling from one side of the city to the other. All trains stop at Bowen Hills, Fortitude Valley, Central and Roma Street, regardless of their origin or destination. Interurban services run between Brisbane and the Gold Coast, with connecting tram services at Helensvale. Interurban services also run between Brisbane and the Sunshine Coast, with connecting bus services at Landsborough. Trains generally run from 4AM to midnight, running later on Friday and Saturday nights, and finishing earlier on Sundays.


==== Buses ====
Brisbane has a large, interconnected network of bus routes that service the whole city. The bus fleet is the most modern in Australia and can be identified by the vibrant blue and yellow colouring within the Transport for Brisbane service area. All buses have a digital display of their route number and a brief description of the terminus and/or areas serviced. Most routes run frequent services from 6AM to 11PM at a minimum.
Brisbane's 'busways' are dedicated bus rapid transit corridors that provide high frequency routes between the northern, southern, eastern and western suburbs. Most busway routes stop at Roma Street, King George Square, and Cultural Centre. The busways interchange with the rail network at Roma Street and Cultural Centre, and the two modes of transport combined provide very good coverage of the city.
In some of Brisbane's notoriously dispersed outer suburbs, services may be much less frequent or have reduced running hours, so it is advisable to check timetables if making these trips. Timetables are sometimes optimistic, especially during morning and afternoon peak hours when traffic is heavy, and buses are occasionally up to 10 minutes late.
As with many cities, Brisbane has a large number of express buses, so it should not be assumed that all buses observe every stop along the roads they travel. In peak hour there are even more express routes ('rockets' and 'bullets') for commuters which make very few stops at all. Ask the driver if you are unsure.
All-night bus services known as 'NightLink' are operated on Friday and Saturday nights.
The following routes are convenient for travel around the inner city:

The 'Brisbane Metro M1' (Route M1) is a high frequency service travelling along the busway from Roma Street to Eight Mile Plains. This bus operates every 5 minutes during the day (M–F 6AM to 6PM), and every 10 to 15 minutes all other times (Su–Th 5:00AM to 11:30PM, and F–Sa 24 hours).
The 'Brisbane Metro M2' (Route M2) is a high frequency service travelling along the busway from RBWH to UQ Lakes. This bus operates every 5 minutes during the day (M–F 6AM to 6PM), and every 10 to 15 minutes all other times (Su–Th 5:00AM to 11:30PM, and F–Sa 24 hours).
The 'Blue CityGlider' (Route 60) is a high frequency service for quick north-south cross-city travel between West End and Teneriffe, stopping at the distinctive light blue bus stops. This bus operates every 5 minutes in peak hour (M–F 7AM to 9AM and 4PM to 6PM), and every 10 to 15 minutes all other times (Su–Th 5:30AM to 11:30PM, and F–Sa 24 hours).
The 'Maroon CityGlider' (Route 61) is a high frequency service for quick east-west cross-city travel between Ashgrove and Coorparoo, stopping at the distinctive maroon bus stops. This bus operates every 10 minutes in peak hour (M–F 7AM to 9AM and 4PM to 6PM) and every 15 minutes all other times (Su–Th 5:30AM to 11:30PM, and F–Sa 24 hours, every 30 minutes after midnight).
The 'City Loop' (Route 40, Route 50) is a free and convenient bus service travelling in both directions around the CBD. This bus operates every 10 minutes on weekdays (M–F 7AM to 6PM) from the distinctive bright purple bus stops.
The 'Spring Hill Loop' (Route 30) is a free and convenient bus service travelling around the Spring Hill area just north of the CBD. This bus operates every 20 minutes on weekdays (M–F 6AM to 9PM) from the distinctive bright yellow bus stops.
Some other honourable bus routes include the 222 to Carindale via the Eastern Busway, the 333 to Chermside via the Northern Busway, the 555 to Loganholme via the South East Busway, and the 169 between UQ Lakes and Eight Mile Plains.


==== Ferries ====

Ferries have become an icon of the city and are a fantastic way to tour Brisbane.

Brisbane River ferries – Brisbane City Council operates an extensive network of ferries that traverse the Brisbane River. The F1 route is an all stops service running between UQ St Lucia and Northshore Hamilton; the F1x routes are express services skipping some smaller stops; the F2x routes are cross river services running between one side of the river and the other. As of 2025, the routes include:
F1 Northshore Hamilton–UQ St Lucia (all stops service)
F11 Apollo Road–Riverside (express service, peak hour only)
F12 West End–QUT Gardens Point (express service, peak hour only)
F21 Bulimba–Teneriffe (cross river service)
F22 Sydney Street–Dockside (cross river service)
F23 Riverside–Holman Street (cross river service)
F24 Maritime Museum–QUT Gardens Point (cross river service)
Moreton Island ferries – Passenger ferries operate from Holt Street Wharf in Pinkenba to Tangalooma on Moreton Island. The ferries operate multiple times daily with a journey time of 75 minutes.
North Stradbroke Island ferries – Passenger and car ferries operate from Toondah Harbour in Cleveland to Dunwich on North Stradbroke Island. The ferries operate multiple times daily with a journey time of 25 minutes.


=== By taxi ===
Uber, Ola and DiDi are available.
Taxis are numerous throughout Brisbane and can take you anywhere. All cabs can be hailed down no matter where you are, provided their roof light is on, though in some areas they might not be able to stop, so it might be best to book one in advance. All cabs accept cash, credit and debit cards. Despite cabs being fitted with GPS units, you'll find it wise to check with the driver about your destination before departing and make sure they are willing to go there.
In the outer-suburban areas, cabs will pull over if you hail them down from the side of the road and can be found in designated taxi ranks in shopping centres, or near bars and pubs. The same can be said for the inner-city, however taxi ranks are more common and it's usually best to catch a cab from there. At night though, especially on Friday and Saturday, cabs exclusively pick up passengers from these ranks and you'd be extremely lucky if you get one elsewhere. These ranks are usually monitored by security and have ushers at night. From midnight-5:30AM on Friday and Saturday nights, all cabs from the CBD and Fortitude Valley become "FlatFare", meaning that there is a fixed price for any given destination and you will have to pay before entering the cab.
Cabs can be expensive in Brisbane; a trip between the airport and the city can be in excess of $50–60 and can easily run to over $100 if you go beyond the metropolitan Brisbane region.


=== By car ===
There are plenty of national car rental companies available to pick up from the airport. As is common with many hire car companies, you will often pay a premium to pick up or return at the airport location. If you are looking to cover a long distance by car, ensure your rental policy includes unlimited mileage – most economy to standard sized car rental include this already. Most car rental companies hire to people 25 years of age and over, some all age car rental companies do hire to younger drivers over 21 (or in very rare cases, 18) years of age (there are surcharges involved for under-age drivers).
Many of the roads in the CBD are one-way, making driving in this area complicated for people not familiar with the layout.  Drivers used to city driving should not find Brisbane too much of a challenge, and parking is readily available in parking stations in the city, albeit often at a steep cost, around $40 to casually park for a day. $15 parking is generally available with early-bird deals (arrive before 9:00, leave after 16:00.) The CBD has limited street parking and issues parking infringements for illegally parked vehicles. All inner-city street parking is metered and signed and costs about $4 per hour. Avoid parking fines by only parking in designated parking bays marked by white lines. A yellow painted line along the kerbside indicates no standing and no parking.
Most CBD roads become clearways at 16:00 (unless signed otherwise), and any cars parked on the side of the road will be fined, towed or both.  You have to pay for the towing to get your car back, and then expect a fine to follow in the mail.  Check for signs and line marking when parking, or just play it safe and find a parking station.
If you are looking to visit the areas surrounding the city, then generally a car will be as quick as any other way of getting around, with the possible exception of the height of peak hour. Brisbane is notorious for having roads that bottle-neck and what would normally be a 15-minute trip could easily turn into well over an hour during peak times.
There are several toll roads in and around Brisbane (clearly signed and marked for approaching motorists), including the Gateway Bridge which crosses the river near the airport, the Clem-7 tunnel and the Go-Between Bridge. Cash is not accepted, toll users must have a prepaid transponder or post-pay via a website. Check the Linkt website for details.
A street directory or GPS unit is an essential addition to your car. Locals are generally friendly and more than willing to help you out if you are lost, so don't be afraid to ask.


=== By motorcycle ===
Under Queensland law, 50cc scooters can be ridden by just about anyone who holds a car driver's licence. This makes them a good way to get around the CBD, due to limited street parking, and often-expensive off-street parking. Scooter and motorbike parking is free and plentiful. The downside to renting a scooter is that they are speed-limited to 55 km/h. If on a multi-lane road, stay in the left lane. Scooters are not allowed on highways. North of Brisbane you will find many beautiful scenic drives for motorbike enthusiasts. The North side is surrounded by many windy roads and great mountain roads on which any motorbike rider can enjoy a full day out on the motorbike of just about any size. There are services available throughout Brisbane and the Gold Coast which deliver both scooters and motorbikes right to your door-step. Some will even provide all the necessary gear as well.


=== By bicycle ===

Getting around the city and South Bank is easy thanks to the many cycle paths along the river.
Cycling on footpaths is legal in the Brisbane City Council area (maximum speed 10 km/h), however pedestrians have right of way. Keep left and take special care when riding through South Bank Parklands as the shared (and quite wide) foot and cycle path is often clogged with large groups taking up the whole path, pedestrians stopping unexpectedly for photos and playing children running heedlessly in front of you. It is often too noisy here to use your bell, so use your common sense, and dismount and push your bike through crowded pedestrian areas.
Maps showing extensive dedicated bikeways and shared paths in the Brisbane City Council area are available via Google Maps. These bikeways offer a pleasant way to explore and enjoy Brisbane.
Some areas of Brisbane are very hilly. If your street map shows a tangle of winding streets close together that is a sign of steep roads. A short trip can quickly become a lot of work; stick to the river when possible, it's where you get the best views and it is almost entirely flat.
If you leave the cycle paths, footpaths, and minor streets you should be prepared to contend with busy urban traffic. Feel free to ignore any Brisbane motorists that may have resentment toward cyclists and ignorance of the road rules applying to cyclists; cyclists are permitted to travel on just about all roads in Brisbane. Special "bicycle lanes" on Brisbane's roads are becoming increasingly common and are often denoted by a narrow green-coloured strip of road adjacent to the curb.


=== By foot ===
Brisbane is an excellent city for walking and you should have no problems getting around the CBD. Within minutes of walking in virtually any direction you will be able to find a bus, train or ferry station. Maps can be purchased from bookstores, any tourist information centre or viewed online. There are also a number of shared pathways that offer relaxed walking routes away from roads and traffic. Beyond the CBD and inner-suburbs however, sights can become very spread out, so you might want to consider other modes of getting around. Areas near the river are relatively flat and are perfect for walking. If you find yourself lost, it's advisable to head to the nearest main road as more than likely it will be serviced by buses or trains.


== See ==


=== Buildings and landmarks ===

1 Brisbane City Hall and King George Square, between Adelaide and Ann Streets. The City Hall is Brisbane's most significant historical landmark and was restored in 2010–2013. The area has free public Wi-Fi.      
2 Brisbane City Hall Clock Tower, Museum of Brisbane. A 92-metre clock tower with Australia's largest analogue clock face. Opened in 1930, it offers a tour through Brisbane's oldest operating cage lifts.    
3 The University of Queensland, St Lucia, ☏ +61 7 3365 1111. One of Australia's oldest and most prestigious institutions, situated on a bend of the Brisbane River. Its majestic sandstone buildings are surrounded by ornamental lakes, jacaranda-lined boulevards and some of the finest architecture. Visitor attractions include the Great Court, the UQ Art Museum at the James and Mary Emelia Mayne Centre, the Eleanor Schonell Bridge, and wildlife in the UQ lakes. It can be reached by CityCat, or bus route 66 from the CBD along Busway.      (updated Jun 2025)
4 Wheel of Brisbane, Russell St, South Bank. Daily 10AM to 10PM. A Ferris wheel that allows you to observe the city from 60 m with views across the Brisbane River. The trip is a 15-minute ride in an enclosed, climate-controlled gondola. Adult $22, student $18, child 4 to 11 years $14.50.      (updated Jun 2025)
5 Cathedral of St. Stephen, 249 Elizabeth St. Daily 8AM-6PM. Heritage-registered Gothic Revival Catholic cathedral and seat of the Archbishop of Brisbane with regular services and guided tours on weekday mornings. Nearby is St. Stephen's Chapel, which was built in the 19th century and lays significance as being the oldest surviving church building in Queensland.      
6 Brisbane Convention & Exhibition Centre, Glenelg St (South Bank), ☏ +61 7 3308 3000. Named as the world's best convention centre, this purpose-built convention centre and event venue plays its host to an average of 1,300 yearly events and contains four exhibition halls.      
7 State Law Building, 50 Ann Street. The office and headquarters of the Attorney-General of Queensland. The structure of the skyscraper, an iconic landmark since 1995, is dubbed the Batman Building, modelled after the Gotham City skyline in the Batman comic book series.      


=== Museums and galleries ===
8 Commissariat Store Museum, 115 William St, ☏ +61 7 3221 4198, info@queenslandhistory.org.au. Tu–F 10AM to 4PM. Occupying the oldest habitable building in Queensland, the museum highlights both the building and aspects of Brisbane and Queensland's convict, colonial and more recent history. Run by The Royal Historical Society of Queensland. Audio tour can be downloaded from website in advance. Adults $7, concession $5.      (updated Jan 2016)
9 The Cube, Queensland University of Technology (QUT), 2 George St, Gardens Point, thecube@qut.edu.au. Daily 10AM to 4PM. The Cube is one of the world's largest digital interactive learning and display spaces dedicated to providing an inspiring, explorative and participatory experience of QUT's Science and Engineering research. Here you will find one of the world's largest digital interactive and learning environments in the Science and Engineering Centre at the QUT Gardens Point campus. You can view research-inspired projects across science, engineering, maths and technology displayed on more than 40 multi-touch screens and 14 high-definition projectors. The Cube is inspiring and engaging the next generation of thinkers and doers with its extensive outreach to schools, including their hands-on and interactive workshops and public programs for high school students and QUT undergraduate and postgraduate students. Free.    (updated Jun 2025)
10 MacArthur Museum, Level 8, MacArthur Chambers, 201 Edward St, ☏ +61 7 3211 7052. Tu Th Su 10AM to 3PM. This museum occupies what was during the Second World War the Office of General Douglas MacArthur. Travel back in time to the early 1940s in this niche Brisbane museum. Adults $8, seniors $5, child $4.    (updated Jan 2016)
11 Museum of Brisbane, Level 3, Brisbane City Hall. Daily 10AM to 5PM, F till 7PM. Hosts a permanent display on the history of Brisbane and rotating exhibits by local artists that touch on Brisbane's lifestyle and culture. Daily tours into the clocktower and observation deck, bookings essential. Free.      (updated May 2019)
12 Queensland Art Gallery, Stanley Place, South Bank, ☏ +61 7 3840 7303, gallery@qagoma.qld.gov.au. 10AM to 5PM. Housed in two buildings in the cultural precinct. Free, except for some special exhibitions.      (updated Jan 2016)
13 Gallery of Modern Art. Part of the Queensland Art Gallery and a short walk from the Main Gallery. Opened in 2006 the gallery regularly hosts exhibitions featuring internationally famous artists (such as Warhol and Picasso) as well as many local contemporary artists.    (updated Jan 2016)
14 Queensland Maritime Museum, cnr Stanley and Sidon Streets, South Bank, ☏ +61 7 3844 5361, info@maritimemuseum.com.au. Daily 9:30AM to 4:30PM. Has a range of exhibitions and vessels. Step aboard the HMAS Diamantina and experience life as a Navy sailor. Be sure to see Ella's Pink Lady, the yacht Queenslander Jessica Watson sailed solo unassisted during her record-breaking journey to become the youngest person to sail solo around the world. Adult $16, concession $14, child $7.      (updated Jan 2016)
15 Queensland Museum, cnr Grey and Melbourne Streets, South Bank, ☏ +61 7 3840 7555. 9:30AM to 5PM. A large museum featuring several exhibitions that generally focus on natural history and Queensland history. Free, except for some special exhibitions.      (updated May 2019)
16 Museum of Lands, Mapping and Surveying, 317 Edward St. Spotlights a historical collection of resources in exhibits relating to surveying techniques and maps.      
 Sciencentre, Level 1 of the Museum. A hands-on, interactive science facility particularly popular with families and children. Adult $15.50, concession $13.50, child $12.50. (updated May 2019)
17 Sir Thomas Brisbane Planetarium, Brisbane Botanic Gardens Mt Coot-tha, Mt Coot-tha Road, Toowong, ☏ +61 7 3403 2578. Hours vary – from 10AM weekdays and 11AM weekends. Open Tu-Su with free admission to astronomy and space displays and a mini theatre. Admission fees apply to the Cosmic Skydome which features a wide variety of astronomy and space programs. All shows feature a "live" segment recreating the current Brisbane night sky. On weekdays (closed M and public holidays), the doors open at 10AM with school shows at 10:30AM and noon. Members of the public are welcome to attend the earlier school shows when space permits (children must be school age). The 1:30PM and 3PM sessions (Tu-F) are public programs, although the 1:30PM program may be booked for dedicated school programs (check with the Planetarium's Booking Office). During Queensland school holidays there are extra public shows on weekdays. On weekends, the Planetarium opens at 11AM and shows are also presented on Saturday night with "Saturday Night Live" at 6PM being a very popular show. There is a shop with a wide variety of astronomical/science merchandise and souvenirs. There is free parking, an adjacent bus stop and a separate cafe/restaurant. Adult $16.10, child $9.80, concession $13.20.      (updated Jun 2025)
18 UQ Anthropology Museum, 9 Chancellor Pl, ☏ +61 7 3365 3111. First opened in 1948, this museum houses a display of ethnographic objects, including modern Indigenous Australian and Pacific Island artwork.      (updated Jun 2025)


=== Nature and wildlife ===
19 Brisbane Botanic Gardens Mt Coot-tha, Mt Coot-tha Rd, Toowong. 8AM to 5:30PM (Sep to Mar); 8AM to 5PM (Apr to Aug). Beautiful subtropical gardens with many walks. Free.      (updated Jan 2016)
20 City Botanic Gardens (10–15 min walk from the city centre and Central or Roma Street railway stations). 24/7. Free 1-hr guided tours M–Sa 11AM and 1PM (no need to book). Walking and cycling tracks. Exhibits. Free tours are a mix of the history of the gardens and the city whereas the garden tours at Mt Coot-tha are more focused on the wide variety of plants. Free.      (updated Jun 2025)
21 Japanese Garden, Toowong, Brisbane Botanic Gardens Mt Coot-tha, Mount Coot-Tha Rd, Toowong. Designed by the Japanese architect Kenzo Ogata with the theme of mountain-pond-stream with a combination of both Japanese and Australian plants.    (updated Nov 2021)
22 Lone Pine Koala Sanctuary, 708 Jesmond Rd, Fig Tree Pocket (via the Western Freeway), ☏ +61 7 3378 1366, service@koala.net. 9AM to 5PM. Reduced hours 25 April. World's first and largest koala sanctuary, with over 130 koalas. Cuddle a koala, hand feed kangaroos and see other Aussie wildlife. Admission $32 adults, $21 children 3–13 years, with discounts for families and students. If you prefer not to drive, you can catch the hourly 445 or 430 buses from the city or the Mirimar boat cruise from South Bank at 10:20AM. Adults $36, child $22, concession $24. Family rates available. Discounts if purchased online in advance.      (updated Jun 2025)
23 Mount Coot-tha, Sir Samuel Griffiths Drive. Brisbane's tallest mountain. A popular make-out spot with a great view and good but overpriced cafe and restaurant. Large TV and radio antennas line some of its broad peak. You can take a scenic drive through the heavily forested Mount Coot-tha Reserve to the peak to see the almost-360° views of Brisbane and the surrounding region. The mountain is 287 m (941 ft) above sea level and forms the eastern extent of the Taylor Range. It is the most northern part of Australia to record snow. It is a prominent landmark approximately 6 km (4 mi) to the west of the Brisbane central business district and is visible from much of the city. Before the Moreton Bay penal settlement, Mount Coot-tha was the home of the Turrbal Aboriginal people. Early Brisbane people called it One Tree Hill when bush at the top of the mountain was cleared except for one large eucalypt tree. The Aboriginal people of the area used to come to the mountain to collect ‘ku-ta’ (honey) that was produced by the native stingless bee. Mount Coot-tha (Place of Honey), a derivative of the indigenous term, replaced the title ‘One Tree Hill' in 1880 when the area was declared a Public Recreation Reserve. Car is the most effective way to enjoy Mount Cootha at your own pace. There is ample parking at the peak. One can also hike the marked trail from the mountain's foot. See one of the best views of Brisbane. It is best to arrive just before dusk or dawn so you can enjoy the transition from day to night. Drive to the peak for a picnic dinner and admire the views. There are several walking tracks through the forests that surround the summit; some are difficult. It is a great place from which to watch the Riverfire fireworks in Sep.      

24 New Farm Park. This historic park is famous for the long line of jacaranda trees, shady picnic areas and its large rose gardens that contain hundreds of varieties of roses, and over 40,000 plants.    
25 Roma Street Parklands. The world's largest subtropical garden in a city centre and home to 1,800 unique species of plants. Experience the theme gardens such as the topiary maze, rain forest walk, lake, celebration law and amphitheatre with many public artworks to admire. Free.      
 Rainforest Walk. Ecological park of South Bank. Set along the banks of the Brisbane River, it's a cool spot to stroll along the boardwalk with plenty of shady subtropical trees. There are also small benches to soak in the tranquility. 


=== Other points of interest ===
26 Manly Boat Harbour. This is the nearest access point to Moreton Bay Marine Park with its pristine waterways and fascinating islands. Next to the harbour is Manly Harbour Village, with a great range of dining and shopping options overlooking the marina.    
27 South Bank and Cultural Precinct. South Bank is a relatively recent development across the Brisbane River from the heart of the city on the site of World Expo '88, and features an artificial beach surrounded by extensive parklands. Also in South Bank are the shops, cafés, restaurants and cinemas of the Grey Street precinct. A great place to hang out on a hot day and swim for free. Adjacent to South Bank, the Cultural Precinct includes the Queensland Performing Arts Centre, Queensland Museum and Sciencentre, Queensland Art Gallery, Gallery of Modern Art (GoMA) and State Library of Queensland. Griffith University's South Bank Campus incorporating The Queensland Conservatorium and the Queensland College of Art are also located on Grey St.    
28 Suncorp Piazza. Within South Bank, it often hosts free live events and movies.    
29 Fort Lytton National Park, Lytton Road, Lytton. Preserves a historic fort built in the late 19th century which operated until just after the Second World War which was an important site for Brisbane's defence, and a historic quarantine station used to quarantine visitors coming from ships who had some sort of disease.      (updated Apr 2022)
Shorncliffe Pier (formerly Sandgate Pier) – A historic timber pier with panoramic views over Moreton Bay.
Einbunpin Lagoon Parklands – A shaded park in the town centre with native wildlife and playgrounds.
Sandgate Town Hall – A heritage-listed building often used for community events and performances.
Shorncliffe cliffs – Coastal walks and scenic lookouts nearby.


== Do ==


=== Activities and trips ===

1 Kangaroo Point. The walls along the Brisbane River are a popular spot for rock climbing and give an excellent view of the CBD skyline just across the river. Activities carry on after dark, when the walls are well-lit. Abseiling and rock climbing classes on the cliffs with an instructor are available from Riverlife Adventures, as well as kayak, kick-bike, rollerblade and bicycle hire. There are also barbecue and picnic spots in the area.    
2 Story Bridge Adventure Climb, toll-free: 1300 254 627, climbs@sbac.net.au. Scale the top of Brisbane's iconic bridge. You can enjoy 360° views of Brisbane, the mountain ranges and Moreton Bay Islands at dawn, afternoon or night.    
 Jan Powers Farmers Markets. Buy fresh fruit, vegetables and cuts of meat from one of the many farmers markets across Brisbane including the Powerhouse at New Farm, Manly, Mitchelton and the newest market at Reddacliff Place at the top of the Queen Street Mall. 
 Balloons over Brisbane, ☏ +61 7 3844 6671. You can gain an aerial perspective as you float over Brisbane in a hot air balloon. It's often possible to see as far off as the magnificent Glasshouse Mountains, to the Gold Coast and out to the islands of Moreton Bay. (updated Jun 2025)
 Cruise the Brisbane River. There are various companies offering a range of river cruises and tours to take in the sights. These include cruises to the Lone Pine Koala Sanctuary, and the BrisVegas floating nightclub. 
 Explore Brisbane's Moreton Bay and Islands. The bay is 25 km (16 mi) from Brisbane's CBD and stretches from Bribie Island to the Southern Bay Islands. Enjoy sand tobogganing, 4-wheel driving, diving or snorkelling or go marine watching and spot turtles, dolphins, dugongs and whales. 
 Explore Greater Brisbane Country. Take a day trip to the surrounding regions around an hour from Brisbane and discover wineries, national parks, lakes and country living. The Scenic Rim including Ipswich, Beaudesert and Boonah is a vast region of mountains, rainforest and valleys embracing the World Heritage wilderness of the McPherson Range. The Lockyer Valley provides a perfect blend of town and country living, with experiences ranging from guided tours and bush camping to hot air ballooning and sky-diving. 
 The Scenic Rim. This describes the large arc of mountains, to a height of 1,375 m (4,511 ft), from the Mistake Ranges (south of Gatton) across the Main (Great Dividing) Range to the MacPherson Range that terminates at Currumbin on the Gold Coast. Apart from some well known locations on the Rim, such as Binna Burra and O'Reilleys guesthouses, Springbrook and Cunningham’s Gap, the largest proportion of these ranges are unspoilt and much of it near-wilderness. Many forest areas were previously logged, but the forest recovery has been excellent, and virtually all the logging tracks have disappeared except for those still used for foot access. At the previously mentioned sites, graded paths offer a taste, but for the more adventurous there are many hiking possibilities from day trips to sustained multi-day exercises. More information can be found on the web. Hikers should be properly prepared and conversant with navigation in difficult country and the rules of National Parks. 
 Riverlife Adventure Centre. Brisbane's riverside adventures. Kayaking, abseiling the Kangaroo Cliffs, a rollerblade session and bike rentals. They also organise evening activities such as kayak paddle and prawns. 
3 The Star Brisbane, 33 William St, ☏ +61 7 3306 8885. 24/7. Full featured casino with a wide variety of slots and table games, in a brand new resort precinct that was opened in August 2024.    


=== Music ===
Brisbane's Fortitude Valley has the highest concentration of bars, pubs and clubs anywhere in Australia and in 2005, was given Australia's first and only "Special Entertainment Precinct" zoning, which protects and promotes the live music scene. In 2007, influential US entertainment Billboard magazine named Brisbane in the world's top 5 hotspots for live music. And in 2010 the city opened the Go-Between Bridge, named after the popular Brisbane indie rock band The Go-Betweens. There is no doubt that the locals love their music and a night out in Brisbane is not complete without experiencing some of the live music on offer. If you are looking for what's happening in Brisbane, most music and entertainment stores as well as some restaurants and cafés offer free entertainment magazines that list what's coming up within the next month or so. Brisbane and the surrounding South East Queensland region plays host to a myriad of music and arts festivals and are advertised in these magazines.
Though you might find most musicians playing in the numerous bars and clubs around the CBD, West End and the Valley, there are some venues which are geared specifically toward hosting bands or artists that are on official tours. Some events allows under-18s in, but not all, so it's best to check beforehand.

4 The Tivoli, 52 Costin St, Fortitude Valley. Has a very relaxed, noir-styled interior with sizable floor space and a mezzanine. Highly rated venue among locals and only a 10-minute walk from The Valley train station.    
5 Crowbar, 711 Ann St, Fortitude Valley. This live music venue is one of the more famous music venues when it was known as "The Zoo". The Zoo folded in 2024 and was subsequently reopened as a similar live music venue know as Crowbar. Indie rock, hipsters and that alternative vibe. Host to local and international acts.    
6 The Triffid, 7–9 Stratton Street, Newstead. Owned by John Collins, former Powderfinger bassist and stalwart of the Australian music scene, the converted World War II aircraft hangar is enjoying a second life as one of Brisbane’s coolest-looking hangouts. Host to all kinds of international, national and local music acts including plenty of Brisbane bands.    (updated Jun 2025)
The Valley Fiesta is an annual three-day event. It was launched by Brisbane Marketing to promote Fortitude Valley as a hub for arts and youth culture. It features free live music, market stalls, food and drink from many local restaurants and cafés, and other entertainment.


=== Sports ===
Football (multiple codes): 7 Suncorp Stadium is host to Brisbane Broncos NRL and Queensland Reds Rugby Union teams in winter, and Brisbane Roar soccer club in summer; in 2023 it staged soccer matches in the Women's World Cup. Other events such as the NRL State of Origin are also a big draw-card.
Cricket: 8 Brisbane Cricket Ground (aka "The Gabba") is south side of the city at Woolloongabba. Gabba is popular for its iconic happenings in the Ashes and against India. It hosts all formats of cricket in summer, including "Test matches" - internationals. In winter it hosts Brisbane Lions AFL team. Gabba is the home ground for Brisbane Heat in the Big Bash League.
Golf: 9 Victoria Park Golf Course +61 7 3252 9891. Herston Road, Herston. Public course right in the centre of the city. Par 65. $22 for 18 holes during the week.
10 St Lucia Links +61 7 3403 2556/7, 18 holes for $26. Good food at the 10 Acre Cafe with fantastic views overlooking the course.


=== Events ===
Thanks to Brisbane's year-round wonderful climate, it's the perfect city to host outdoor events. The city often plays host to cultural and historic celebrations, music festivals and family entertainment, particularly in the Summer holiday months of December, January and February.

 Brisbane Festival. By far the largest and most popular event in Brisbane. Held annually at the end of September. This festival, which started as a celebration of the Brisbane River, now incorporates a number of smaller events at various places around South Bank Parklands, the Cultural Centre and the CBD as a celebration to Brisbane itself. Notably, the 'Riverfire' event which is held in South Bank every September draws the largest crowd. It offers free family entertainment all day and the city's biggest Fireworks display at night. 
 The Ekka (Royal Queensland Show). A staple event in Brisbane's history and culture, held every August dating back to 1876. It is hosted at the RNA Showgrounds in the inner-suburb of Bowen Hills and runs for a week, where the Wednesday is a public holiday (so expect large crowds on this day). Primarily marketed toward families, attractions at the Ekka include fairground rides, a Side Show Alley, animal parades, wood chopping competitions, agricultural displays, equestrian events and Showbags, usually containing food items (such as confectionery) and novelty items. If you are in Brissy at the time, it really is not to be missed! 
 Paniyiri Festival. A Greek cultural celebration held by Brisbane's large Greek population. A popular family entertainment event, offering authentic Greek foods and entertainment. In Musgrave Park. 
 Brisbane International Film Festival. Begins in November and is hosted in a variety of cinema venues around Brisbane. The festival features new films and retrospectives by domestic and international filmmakers along with seminars and awards. (updated Jun 2019)
Each year, Brisbane also hosts several parades through the central city. These can make great photo opportunities, and include:

 St Patrick's Day. Parade on Saturday closest to 17 March (updated Jun 2025)
 ANZAC Day. Parade starts 10AM on 25 April. (updated Jun 2025)
 May Day March. Large parade with participants from local trade unions. First Sunday in May. 
 Christmas Parade and Pantomime. Each evening from early December until Christmas, the central city's Queen Street pedestrian mall gets taken over by elves, sugerplum fairies, live camels and a giant teddy bear. It's a popular event for families, particularly on weekends. 


== Learn ==
Several universities call Brisbane home and there are significant opportunities for international students to enrol in degree programs. Many of them have exchange agreements with several foreign universities.

2 University of Queensland (UQ). Is the oldest university in Queensland and arguably the most prestigious, being a member of the Group of Eight, a coalition of leading Australian universities, intensive in research and comprehensive in general and professional education. UQ has its main campus in the Brisbane suburb of St. Lucia, with other smaller campuses at Ipswich, Gatton and Herston, and satellite facilities scattered around Queensland.    (updated Mar 2024)
3 Queensland University of Technology (QUT). Another major university located in Brisbane, with a strong focus on research and practical teaching, formed as an amalgamation of a number of various technical colleges. It also ranks very highly amongst Australian universities. The main campus is located at Gardens Point, right in the heart of the Brisbane CBD, with a second campus at Kelvin Grove.    (updated Mar 2024)
4 Griffith University (simply referred to as Griffith by the locals). The other major university in Brisbane, with a focus on more creative degrees, but it does offer many of the same degrees you can undertake at other universities. The university has a number of campuses in Brisbane suburbs including South Bank, Mount Gravatt and Nathan, with another two campuses in Logan City and the Gold Coast.      (updated Mar 2024)


== Buy ==
Late night shopping is Thursday evenings in the suburbs, and Friday evening in the city centre. Other nights, expect most shops to close at 5PM.

1 Queen Street Mall. Main shopping mall in Brisbane, large variety of shops, contains several shopping centres.   
2 Uptown. Runs the gamut from jeans shops to specialty knife stores. Internet kiosks are available.   
3 The Wintergarden. A fashion centre connected to the foot of the Hilton Hotel. Also contains a licensed day or night bowling alley.    
4 QueensPlaza. A fashion centre, with more expensive, big brand stores.    
5 Brisbane Arcade. A secluded narrow shopping strip which acts as a pass way between Adelaide and Queen St. It contains many unique stores. It is one of the few remaining heritage shopping arcades in Brisbane.    
6 Queen Adelaide Building. One of Brisbane’s oldest buildings is home to Queensland’s flagship Sportsgirl store, Adidas and Rebel Sport.    

7 Treasury Brisbane (The Conrad Treasury Casino) (at the George Street end of the mall).    
 Adelaide Street. Downtown's dress circle 
8 Elizabeth Street Arcade. Arcade that spans between Elizabeth and Charlotte streets. Lots of independent boutiques to suit various prices, and lots of cheap Asian food.    
 Albert Street. Has many adventure and sports-type retailers, lots of bookstores. 
 Eagle Street. The centre of law and finance in Queensland, holds the Eagle Street and Riverside markets. 
 Edward Street. Mostly covered by 9 Queens Plaza, 10 MacArthur Central and 11 Wintergarden street fashion stores. There are also a couple of jewellery, take-away restaurants, bars and night clubs. Edward St. has been transformed into a luxury brands precinct, with stores such as MaxMara, Tiffany & Co., Louis Vuitton, Cartier, Bulgari, Bally, Mont Blanc, Chanel, Gucci, Hugo Boss, Oroton, Ralph Lauren, L'Occitane, and Hermes. Apple opened its Brisbane flagship store in the heritage-style MacArthur Chambers building, (which acted as U.S. General Douglas MacArthur's regional headquarters in World War II), and is similar to Apple's other heritage building refurbishments in London, Paris, Amsterdam and Berlin. Brisbane's MacArthur Chambers store was ranked among the best. (updated Dec 2016)
12 South Bank markets. Held at the South Bank Parklands every Sunday.    
13 Brunswick Street Mall. Located in the heart of China Town, there are many Chinese retailers, fast food restaurants, cafes and bars. Markets are run on Sundays.    
14 Indooroopilly Shopping Centre (322 Moggill Road), ☏ +61 7 3378 4022, info@indooroopillyshopping.com.au. Large shopping centre sprawled over three massive levels. Large variety of retailers.    (updated Jun 2025)
15 Westfield Garden City, Corner of Logan and Kessels Roads, Upper Mt Gravatt, ☏ +61 7 3135 5450. Large shopping centre with two levels. Contains a large variety of fashion retailers and book stores. Outdoor food section based around a water feature, that's busy into the evening.    (updated Jun 2025)
16 Westfield Chermside, Corner of Gympie and Hamilton Roads, Chermside, ☏ +61 7 3117 5300. Brisbane's largest shopping centre. Popular among youth culture for its Megaplex Movie Cinema.    (updated Jun 2025)
17 Westfield Carindale, 1151 Creek Road, Carindale, ☏ +61 7 3120 5400. The largest shopping centre in the Eastern Suburbs.    (updated Jun 2025)
18 Northside Flower Market, Unit 3, 27 Windorah St, Stafford. M to Sa.    (updated Jun 2025)
19 West End Markets, Montague Rd & Jane St, West End (Davies Park). Sa 6AM to 1PM. An expansive farmers-style market with an alternative vibe that sells fruit and vegetables, meats, cheese, and handicrafts. Also has food vendors, including a crêperie.    (updated Jun 2025)
 James Street, Fortitude Valley. Small strip with high-end fashion, furniture and electronics retail, plus a couple of nice bars and cafes. 
20 Valley Markets. Sa Su 8AM to 4PM. A shopping must for locals and tourists. Operating every weekend, find jewellery, fabulous handmade accessories and artwork. Home to emerging fashion designers.    (updated Jun 2025)
 Ann St. Along Ann Street in the Valley there are many independent fashion boutiques for mid-range shopping. Some of them are spread out around the corner of Brunswick Street too. 


== Eat ==


=== Brisbane City and Spring Hill ===


==== Budget ====
1 Kadoya, 73 Mary St, ☏ +61 7 3229 3993. M–Th 10:30AM to 8PM, F 10:30AM to 8:30PM, Sa 11AM to 9PM, Sunday closed. A casual Japanese eatery and takeaway dishing up rice bowls, noodle soups and bento boxes. Cooked fresh, tasty, cheap. Popular lunch spot for city-workers.    (updated Apr 2019)
2 Beach House (Beach House Bar & Grill CBD), Shop 58, Level E, Myer Centre Corner Elizabeth and Albert St, ☏ +61 7 3003 0017. Su–Th 11AM–9PM, F Sa 11AM–9:30PM. Located on the corner of Albert and Elizabeth St, Myer Centre, 2F. Licensed bar, large meals and live entertainment at value for money.    (updated Jun 2025)
 Bar Merlo. Various outlets throughout the city, their first being opened in the QUT Gardens Point campus. Regarded as one of the leaders in the Brisbane café society boom since the 1990s, their coffee is served at countless cafes and restaurants throughout Brisbane. 
3 Pancake Manor, 18 Charlotte St (just down from George Street), ☏ +61 7 3221 6433. A Brisbane institution, open 24 hours. Tends to fill up with nightclub revellers on their way home after about 3AM on a Saturday or Sunday morning.    (updated Jun 2025)


==== Mid-range ====
4 Le Bon Choix, 379 Queen St, ☏ +61 7 3229 9260. Near the golden triangle. Great French bakery. Sells a good variety of sandwiches, cakes, tortes, macarons, fresh bread, croquettes, quiches and coffee. M–F 7AM to 6PM, Sa Su 7AM to 5PM.    (updated Jun 2025)


==== Splurge ====
5 Alchemy, 175 Eagle St, ☏ +61 7 3229 3175. Located in a little hideaway on Eagle St, this restaurant has one of the most impressive views in Brisbane, looking across the river to the Story Bridge. Well known for its "liquid nitrogen nibbles", Alchemy lives up to its name.    (updated Jun 2025)
6 E'cco Bistro, 63 Skyring Tce, ☏ +61 7 3831 8344. Founded and run by the internationally renowned and acclaimed chef Philip Johnson, it is one of the best restaurants in Brisbane and Australia-wide.    (updated Jun 2025)
7 Moda, The Barracks 61, ☏ +61 7 3221 7655. Huge selection of wines and a varied menu including seafood, duck, rabbit and pork cheeks. By no means cheap but amazing food.    (updated Jun 2025)
8 Vintaged, Elizabeth St (Hilton Brisbane). Serving carefully aged meat within luxe surroundings, this is one of better hotel restaurants in Brisbane.    


=== Fortitude Valley and New Farm ===
9 Continental Cafe, 21 Barker St, ☏ +61  3254 0377. Good food, nice atmosphere across several rooms, surprisingly good children's menu. Open for dinner 364 days a year. Watch out for the offal specials on Tuesdays. Reliable high quality.    (updated Jun 2025)
10 Enjoy Inn, 167 Wickham St (corner of Duncan St in Chinatown), ☏ +61 7 3252 3838. One of the longest established restaurants in Brisbane, good Chinese food.    (updated Jun 2025)
11 Fatboys Cafe, 321 Brunswick St, ☏ +61 7 3252 3789. The cafe portion of Ric's Bar, on Brunswick St Mall. Serves some of the best value for money breakfasts in Brisbane from $4.    (updated Jun 2025)
12 Harvey's, 4/31 James St, ☏ +61 7 3852 3700. Very popular cafe restaurant and deli. It is located a short walk from James St market.    (updated Jun 2025)
13 James Street Market. Not a restaurant, but a yuppie grocery where you will find all the food and drink you need to bring with you in the bush. Includes a small sushi bar at furthest end from James St.    
14 La Macelleria Gelateria, 10/29 Florence St, Teneriffe, ☏ +61 423 286 542. M–Th noon–10PM; F noon–11PM. A small Italian gelato place that prides on almost all the ingredients being locally grown in Queensland.    (updated Sep 2025)
15 Mecca Bah, 5/70 Longland St, ☏ +61 7 3252 5299. Popular restaurant that serves modern Middle Eastern food, part of an Australian interstate franchise that originated in Melbourne.    (updated Jun 2025)
16 Taj Mahal, 710 Brunswick St, ☏ +61 7 3254 2388. Amazing Indian cuisine. Caterers to the Indian Cricket Team when in Brisbane.    (updated Jun 2025)


=== South Bank and Woolloongabba ===
17 Ahmet's Turkish Restaurant, 10/168 Grey St, South Brisbane, ☏ +61 7 3846 6699. Su–Th 11:30AM–8PM; F Sa 11:30AM–9PM. Turkish restaurant, features belly dancers on weekends. One of the most popular and busiest restaurants in the South Bank precinct, though the painstaking quality of the kitchen means a longer than usual wait for food. Do not expect to be in and out in less than an hour.    (updated Jun 2025)
18 Brisbane German Club, 416 Vulture St (opposite The Gabba stadium), ☏ +61 7 3391 2434. This restaurant/bar offers a wonderful range of authentic German cuisine and beer for very reasonable prices.    (updated Jun 2025)
19 Norman Hotel, 102 Ipswich Rd, Woolloongabba, ☏ +61 7 3391 5022. Along with the Breakfast Creek Hotel, possibly the best steaks in town, its slogan is "Brisbane's worst vegetarian restaurant".    (updated Jun 2025)


=== Milton and Park Road ===
20 China Sea, 60 Park Rd (on the Coronation Drive end of Park Road), ☏ +61 7 3367 0198. Excellent Chinese food at upper-range prices.    (updated Jun 2025)
21 La Dolce Vita, 20 Park Rd (next to Rue de Paris), ☏ +61 7 3368 3805. Great Italian cafe.    (updated Jun 2025)


=== Paddington ===
22 Gambaro's, 33 Caxton St, ☏ +61 7 3369 9500. Has a seafood restaurant and a long-established seafood takeaway. A Brisbane institution.    (updated Jun 2025)
23 Montrachet, 1/30 King Street, ☏ +61 7 3367 0030. French bistro specializing in Lyonnaise specialties, regarded as one of Brisbane's best restaurants.    (updated Jun 2025)
24 Sultans Kitchen, 163 Given Terrace, ☏ +61 7 3368 2194. Among the best Indian food in the city. Fresh and tasty and good service. Usually fills quickly and does a roaring take-away trade, so get in early.    (updated Jun 2025)


=== University of Queensland ===
The university and its surrounds provide many quality eateries if you happen to be in the area or on a CityCat ferry and caters to a cheaper market.

25 Main Refectory. In the main eatery on campus, found in Building 21. This is also known as The Refec, not be confused with the Physiology Refectory. Food is usually reasonably priced, to cater to students. Apart from the main section of the refectory (Main Course), there is a sushi bar, noodle bar, Souvlaki Hut, Subway, Boost Juice, bakery and a Mr. Beans Coffee.    
 Physiology Refectory. An eatery known as The Physiology Refec, located in building 63, it is designed to allow students to eat without having to travel to the opposite side of campus. 
26 A Salt 'n Battery, Hawken Drive, Hawken Village. Quality fish and chip shop-cum-seafood restaurant with a wide variety of foods and decent prices. Approx 5- to 10-min walk from the University.    (updated Jun 2025)
27 The Pizza Caffe, ☏ +61 7 3377 2239. Fantastic pizzas with really different ingredients.    (updated Jun 2025)


=== South Brisbane and West End ===
28 Lefkas Taverna, 170 Hardgrave Rd, West End, ☏ +61 7 3844 1163. Brisbane's most famous Greek takeaway and restaurant.    (updated Jun 2025)
29 Trang, 2/59 Hardgrave Road, West End. Did someone say Pho? Head here for possibly the best Pho is Brisbane. Give the Chinese menu a miss.    


=== Restaurants in other areas and precincts ===

30 Breakfast Creek Hotel, 2 Kingsford Smith Drv (in the Newstead area), ☏ +61 7 3262 5988. Famous for its steaks, a Brisbane institution.    (updated Jun 2025)
31 Earth 'n' Sea, Oxford St, Bulimba or 336 Ipswich Rd, Annerley, ☏ +61 7 3899 5988 (Oxford St), +61 7 3392 3245 (Ipswich Rd). BYO family restaurant serving up delicious pasta dishes and pizzas with unusual toppings, all with fresh ingredients, great atmosphere and strange Aussie decor. Expensive but satisfying.    (updated Apr 2019)
32 Olive Thyme, 293 Sandgate Rd (off Sandgate Road at Albion), ☏ +61 7 3862 4599, info@olivethyme.com.au. A popular destination for traditional Turkish cuisine and a friendly atmosphere in Brisbane.    (updated Jun 2025)
33 Landmark, 101/358 Mains Rd, ☏ +61 7 3344 3288. (Sunnybank Plaza business precinct). One of the most renowned and popular Chinese restaurants in Brisbane, notably for its well done authentic yum cha.    (updated Jun 2025)
34 Sitar, 331 Sandgate Rd, ☏ +61 7 3862 2400. Indian restaurant that has franchises in suburbs like West End and New Farm.    (updated Jun 2025)
35 Tosakan Thai Restaurant, 23 Playfield St, ☏ +61 7 3350 5371. 11AM to 10:30PM. Tosakan Thai Restaurant serves authentic Thai food for dining in or takeaway. $7-35.    (updated Jun 2025)


=== Cafes ===


==== West End ====
36 The Gunshop Cafe, 53 Mollison St, ☏ +61 7 3844 2241. Possibly the best French toast in the city. Always busy so be prepared to queue. Fantastic coffee.    (updated Nov 2024)
37 Lychee Lounge, 94 Boundary St. Inspired by the neighbourhoods pre- and post-war housing and vibrant art sub-culture. Asian-inspired snacks and cocktails.    
38 West End Coffee House, 80 Vulture St, West End (corner Vulture St and Boundary St). 6AM to 4PM. Organic coffee, Thai food for lunch, relaxed atmosphere and occasional exhibitions. $3 coffee.    (updated Jun 2025)


==== Teneriffe ====
39 Blowfly, 110 Macquarie St. Quirky and intimate. Modern take on the traditional Australian BBQ with a large alfresco dining area.    


==== Brisbane CBD ====
40 Brew, Lower Burnett Ln. Creative and relaxed café off the Albert St Mall. Great coffee, food and boutique beer and cider in an intimate location.    
41 John Mills Himself, 40 Charlotte St, ☏ +61 0434 064 349. Entrance via driveway. Tucked away in an old garage in the eponymous John Mills building, this funky café boasts knowledgeable baristas serving a variety of espresso and filter coffees using high quality beans that are regularly rotated. Also stocks cold brewed iced coffees and iced chocolates which are perfect for those hot Brisbane days. Turns into a boutique beer and cocktail bar after 3:30PM.    (updated Jun 2025)


==== Paddington ====
42 Anouk, 212 Given Tce, ☏ +61 7 3367 8663. Open daily 7AM to 2:30PM. Sophisticated atmosphere and the perfect place for brunch. On weekends you may have to queue for seating.    (updated Jun 2025)


==== Wynnum and Manly ====
43 Tide on the Jetty, William Gunn Jetty, Manly Esplanade (behind the Manly Baths swimming pool). Cafe owned by the Port of Brisbane. Open 7 days, from 9AM to 4PM, Sit over the water enjoying a drink, dessert or meal and admire Moreton Bay. Peaceful.    (updated Jun 2025)


== Drink ==
Brisbane's drinking and nightlife scene is separated into some distinct areas. Anyone planning a night on the town should be aware that after 3AM, no more patrons are allowed into pubs and clubs. This is a safety measure, coupled with increased security presence at taxi ranks. Additionally, smokers should beware of strict anti-smoking regulations. Smoking is now banned in "all areas where food & drink are served", both indoors and outdoors. This means that smoking is banned in all hotels, clubs, and cafés except in designated smoking areas.
The drinking age in Australia is 18 and only an Australian driver's licence, 18+ card or a foreign passport is accepted as proof of age. Other forms of ID such as a student card are not accepted. These regulations are strictly enforced – for nightclubs in particular, your ID will always be checked at the door, and while venues serving food may let you in, most are very prudent in checking ID if you wish to purchase alcohol.


=== Suburban ===
Toowong:

1 Regatta, 543 Coronation Drive, Toowong (adjacent to the Regatta CityCat terminal), ☏ +61 7 3871 9595. Expect a wait to get in on Th, F and Sa nights, but a must-go for the best sessions on W and Su nights when the venue is completely taken by students.    (updated Jun 2025)
2 Royal Exchange (RE) Hotel, 10 High St, ☏ +61 7 3371 2555, royal.exchange.hotel@alhgroup.com.au. Generally a good, down-to-earth pub, more so than the Regatta, which tends to cater to a slightly trendier crowd    (updated Jun 2025)
Regatta and the RE have reputations (which they more than live up) as student haunts, being located reasonably close to the St Lucia campus of the University of Queensland.
Bulimba:
Catch a citycat to Bulimba for some trendy shopping on popular Oxford Street, great cafes, hip bars or for a picnic in the park.

3 Oxford 152, 152 Oxford St, ☏ +61 7 3899 2026, oxford152@alhgroup.com.au. One of Brisbane's most popular suburban restaurant/bars.    (updated Jun 2025)
Breakfast Creek:
In Brisbane's inner north as you head over Breakfast Creek you will see the exterior of one of Brisbane's most famous pubs and the Heritage Listed figure of Mr Fourex winking at you from the signage.

4 Breakfast Creek Hotel, 2 Kingsford Smith Dve, Albion, ☏ +61 7 3262 5988, oxford152@alhgroup.com.au. Built in the French Renaissance style in 1889 - the ' Brekkie Creek' is one of Brisbane's most iconic watering holes famous for its steaks and XXXX 'beer off the wood' popular.    (updated Aug 2025)
Stones Corner
An up-and-coming historic area experiencing a revitalisation in boutiques shops, restaurants, cafes and bars. 10 minutes from the CBD by bus.

5 Stones Corner Hotel, 346 Logan Rd (Bus routes 61 or 222 to Stones Corner Busway Station), ☏ +61 7 3397 3727. Daily 6AM to 4AM. The heritage charm of the Stones Corner Hotel is felt the moment you enter this beautifully renovated landmark. Busy, rustic-chic pub with a wide range of craft beers and extensive menu of classic Australian pub food. Features a beer garden, plus trivia and comedy.    (updated Apr 2019)


=== Brisbane City ===
6 Brew, Lower Burnett Ln, ☏ +61 7 3211 4242. This alleyway joint is a relaxed, bohemian cafe by day and a trendy boutique bar by night. Brew serves some of the best coffee in Brisbane, as well as a wide range of micro-brewed beers, in a welcoming, creative environment. Down an alleyway off the Albert St Mall heading to King George Square, next to the Rocking Horse.    (updated Jun 2025)
7 Star Casino, 130 William St. Brisbane's casino has a number of bars, from quiet lounges to dance floors. Known for its choice of bars. Open 24 hours a day (no lockout), though the individual bars vary.    
8 Criterion Tavern, 239 George St. A renovated bar, recommended for those who are looking for a quick beer and some country music.    
9 Down Under Bar, 308 Edward St. A well known haunt for travellers, with a number of pool tables, dance floor and unashamedly little class. Messages left by visitors from all over the world adorn the walls. If you are studying in Brisbane or just backpacking, this is perfect bar for meeting people of other nationalities.    
10 Exchange Hotel, 131 Edward St. Somewhat popular with a wide, although decidedly young, demographic, including students, young professionals and tourists, who all stream in later in the night after cheap drinks finish at the other hotels nearby. Renovated with stylish interior and 2nd floor open roof bar.    
11 Fridays, 123 Eagle St. A very popular nightclub which also features dining (not recommended after 10PM). Especially popular with the Friday after-work crowd. Smart dress code (business style shoes and shirts for the guys), always enforced.    
12 Gilhooleys, 124 Albert St. Possibly the liveliest of Brisbane's Irish pubs, you can still get a quiet pint over a hearty lunch.    
13 Irish Murphy's, 175 George St. Good food, a lively atmosphere and a great pint at this Irish pub on George St.    
14 The Port Office Hotel, 40 Edward St. Trendy bar downstairs dance floor upstairs popular spot in Brisbane. Crowded with students on Thursday.    
15 Sportsman Hotel, 130 Leichhardt St. Commonly called "Sporty's", this gay and lesbian pub has two bars upstairs and one private members bar downstairs. Lunch and dinner are served. Drag shows and karaoke on certain nights.    


=== Fortitude Valley ===
The Fortitude Valley is a unique area of Brisbane catering to the live music scene. A large number of Brisbane's hippest clubs are located here. Through the 1960s and 70s it was seen as Brisbane's bohemian hub and has maintained a certain degree of that reputation. It became thought of as being one of the more dangerous areas of the city but this attitude is changing as the area becomes more popular and hence, safer. This attitude, however, has had an adverse effect on the area's creative vibe, as locals turn their back on the area, forcing the creative centre of Brisbane to shift towards other areas of the city such as West End and Paddington. As with anywhere, simple common sense, caution and courtesy will keep you out of harm's way.

16 The Beat, 677 Ann St. Downstairs has three dance areas dedicated to hardcore/rave, electro and popular music, upstairs is gay (generally a younger crowd than the Wickham) and has two dance floors and a beer garden.    
17 Birdees, 608 Ann St, ☏ +61 7 3852 5000. OK atmosphere, mainly student (popular with this crowd because of the lack of cover charge) and backpacker clientele. Commercial dance music.    (updated Jun 2025)
18 Cloudland, 641 Ann St. Cocktail lounge on Ann Street with a retractable roof, 10 metre waterfall, 5,000 plants and a glass bar made from 17,000 glass balls threaded by hand. Caters to a very upmarket, sophisticated crowd. Smart dress code which is strictly enforced on busy nights.    
19 The Empire, 339 Brunswick St. Alternative dance club, nice long balcony overlooking busy Brunswick Street, a few levels, less pretentious but darker than other dance clubs in Brisbane although no less expensive.    
20 GPO, 740 Ann St. Bar and nightclub in a former Post Office on Ann Street; trendy spot with great tunes.    
21 Green Beacon Brewing Co., 26 Helen St, ☏ +61 460 408 697. M Tu 2–9PM, W Th Su noon–9PM, F Sa noon–10PM. Has a good range of its own home-brewed ale and was Brisbane's first brewpub (a brewery that acted as a pub at the same time). Prices can be a little on the higher end, but the quality makes up for the price.    (updated Sep 2025)
22 The Met, 256 Wickham St. The biggest club in Brisbane. Host to many international DJs. Amazing decor with great attention to detail. Many different rooms to explore. Although a bit expensive, a huge variety of different types of people inside.    
23 The Press Club, 339 Brunswick St. Small club with large lounges to stretch out on. Host to funky Jazz blended with dance music.    
24 Rics, 321 Brunswick St. Live music most nights. The Valley's hipster institution. Venue also includes "Fatboys Cafe", which is a popular restaurant serving breakfast, steaks, pizza and pasta.    
25 Royal George (RG) Hotel, 327 Brunswick St. Large beer garden in the Brunswick St Mall, great atmosphere, great food deals most nights.    
26 The Wickham, 308 Wickham St. A gay & lesbian dance club with outdoor seating, drag shows most nights.    


=== West End ===
Less crowded than 'the valley' or the city, this bohemian district popular with locals offers a few hip clubs, intimate restaurants and a very laid back atmosphere. High concentration of craft beer bars, serving local, interstate and international brews.
Check out:

27 Lychee Lounge, 94 Boundary St. Intimate setting, sensual cocktails, beautiful crowd.    
28 Archive Beer Boutique, 100 Boundary St. Located at street level beneath Uber, Archive stocks over 200 different craft beers, primarily Australian. The food is generally excellent, although the menu is in no way as extensive as the beverage list. Prices are reasonable, particularly on Sunday "Beer O'Clock" where the price on the majority of bottled beers are reduced to $5.    
29 The Boundary Hotel, 137 Boundary St. West End's oldest pub. This is perhaps the largest drinking establishment in West End, with two bars downstairs and a beer garden & deck on the upper floor. The food is fairly plain but well priced, and the drinks menu is about the same. Excellent live blues acts Sunday afternoon and evenings from Wednesday to Saturday are the main reason to visit.    
30 Covent Garden West End, 142 Boundary St, West End, ☏ +61 7 3844 0142. A modern Australian, gin house. This is where gin lovers in Brisbane go to satisfy their thirst.    (updated Jun 2025)
31 The End, 73 Vulture St. Calls itself a "boutique bar for everyone". Quite small inside, so if you're not there early you will probably miss out on a seat to 'hipper than thou' types. Decent selection of beers at the average price, ever-changing seasonal cocktail menu.    


== Sleep ==


=== Budget ===
1 Banana Backpackers (Banana Benders), 118 Petrie Terrace (500 m from Roma St Transit Centre), ☏ +61 7 3367 1157, reception@bananabenders.com. Check-in: 1PM, check-out: 11AM. A small, clean & friendly hostel on the fringe of Brisbane CBD. 10 minutes walk from Brisbane Transit centre and an easy walk to South Bank & CBD. Can be a little quiet but a great place to relax and meet new people. $25-75.    (updated Sep 2025)
2 Brisbane City Backpackers, 380 Upper Roma St (400 m from Roma St Transit Centre), ☏ +61 7 3211 3221. Clean, relaxed hostel with a pool and friendly staff.    (updated Jun 2025)
3 Brisbane City YHA, 392 Upper Roma St (600 m from Roma St Transit Centre), ☏ +61 7 3236 1004, brisbanecity@yha.com.au. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 10AM. From $29.    (updated Jun 2025)
4 Bunk Backpackers, 21 Gipps St, Fortitude Valley, ☏ +61 7 3257 3644, info@bunkbrisbane.com.au. Check-in: 1PM, check-out: 10AM. Modern, clean, very popular, swimming pool, and one of Brisbane's popular (but more expensive) night clubs, Birdee Num Num.    (updated Jun 2025)
5 Cloud 9 Backpackers Resort, 350 Upper Roma St, ☏ +61 7 3236 5007, info@cloud9backpackers.com.au. New, modern, industrial-space conversion.    (updated Jun 2025)
6 ibis budget Brisbane Airport, 18 Navigator Place, Cnr. Nudgee Road, ☏ +61 7 3868 3457, h3512@accor.com. From $89.    (updated Jan 2016)
7 ibis budget Windsor, 159 Lutwyche Road, ☏ +61 7 3857 0488, h5403@accor.com. From $74.    (updated Jan 2016)
8 Kingsford Riverside Inn, 114 Kingsford Smith Drive, Hamilton, ☏ +61 7 3862 1317, toll-free: 1800 777 590, k.r.inn@optusnet.com.au. Close to the airport. A few minutes’ walk from the Breakfast Creek Hotel. The accommodation can be accessed via door-to-door transport services. From $99.    (updated Jun 2025)
9 Manly Harbour Backpackers, 45 Cambridge Parade, Manly, ☏ +61 7 3396 3824. Next to the ocean, in a bayside suburb. 40 min train ride from the Brisbane CBD. Can organise activities like surfing, sailing, fishing and diving. Dorms and private rooms, internet access, airport and train transfers.    (updated Oct 2024)
10 Somewhere to Stay Backpackers Hostel, 47 Brighton Rd, Highgate Hill, ☏ +61 7 3333 2964, toll-free: 1800 812 398.    (updated Jun 2025)


=== Mid-range ===
Brisbane hotels are listed in alphabetical order.

11 Adina Apartment Hotel Brisbane Anzac Square, 255 Ann St, ☏ +61 7 3001 9888, anzacsquare@adinahotels.com.au. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 11PM. Adina Hotel Brisbane Anzac Square is a modern hotel that overlooks the Anzac Square memorial gardens. From $104.    (updated Jan 2016)
12 Albion Manor Apartments and Motel, 402 Sandgate Road (Cnr Sandgate Road & Camden Street), Albion, ☏ +61 7 3256 0444, toll-free: 1800 247 447, enquiries@albionmanor.com.au. Spacious and comfortable studio apartment. From $105.    (updated Jun 2025)
13 Central Brunswick Hotel, 455 Brunswick Street, Fortitude Valley, ☏ +61 7 3852 1411, fax: +61 7 3852 1015, info@centralbrunswickhotel.com.au. Spacious apartments close to Chinatown and nearby to CBD area of downtown Brisbane.    (updated Jun 2025)
 Choice Hotels – Brisbane Properties. Many locations in Brisbane outside of the immediate CBD area serving quality accommodation at affordable prices under the brands EcnoLodge, Ascend, Quality Inn and Comfort Inn. (updated Jun 2025)
14 Four Points by Sheraton Brisbane, 99 Mary Street, ☏ +61 7 3164 4000, fourpoints.brisbane@fourpoints.com. Check-in: 3PM, check-out: 11AM. From $129.    (updated Jan 2016)
15 Greenslopes Motor Inn in Brisbane (Greenslopes), 389 Cornwall Street (Cnr Dansie St), Greenslopes, ☏ +61 7 3394 3066, toll-free: 1800 441 144, fax: +61 7 3394 2936, info@gsmi.com.au. 18 rooms, easy access off the Pacific Highway, plenty of off-street parking. From $99.    (updated Jan 2016)
16 Hilton, 190 Elizabeth St, ☏ +61 7 3234 2000, brisbane.info@hilton.com. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 11AM. Overlooks Queen Street Mall. From $206.    (updated Jan 2016)
17 Hotel Grand Chancellor, 23 Leichhardt Street, ☏ +61 7 3831 4055, reservations@hgcbrisbane.com.au. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 11AM. From approx $160.    (updated Jan 2016)
18 Mantra South Bank, 161 Grey St, South Bank, ☏ +61 7 3305 2500, southbankbris.res@mantra.com.au. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 10AM. New, modern, brash and very stylish. From approx $159.    (updated Jan 2016)
19 Marriott Hotel, 515 Queen St, ☏ +61 7 3303 8000. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 11AM. Comfortable hotel with lovely staff. From $163.    (updated Jun 2025)
20 Mercure Brisbane King George Square, Corner Ann & Roma Streets, ☏ +61 7 3229 9111, H8780@accor.com. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 10:30AM. Walking distance to the Queen St Mall shopping precinct. From $143.    (updated Jan 2016)
21 Novotel Brisbane Airport, 6–8 The Circuit, Brisbane Airport (follow signs to Skygate), ☏ +61 7 3175 3100, reservations@novotelbrisbaneairport.com.au. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 11AM. From $229.    (updated Jan 2016)
22 Pullman Brisbane King George Square, Corner Ann & Roma Sts, ☏ +61 7 3229 9111, H8784@accor.com. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 10:30AM. Within walking distance of the Queen St Mall shopping precinct. From $175.    (updated Jan 2016)
23 Raceways Motel in Brisbane (Hamilton), 66 Kent St, ☏ +61 7 3268 4355, enquiries@racewaysmotel.com.au. Check-in: noon. Family run accommodation close to Brisbane City Centre and Brisbane International Airport. From $129.    (updated Jun 2025)
24 The Great Southern Hotel, 103 George St, ☏ +61 7 3221 6044, reservations103g@greatsouthernhotel.com.au. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 11AM. From $62.    (updated Jan 2016)
25 Ridge on Leichhardt Hotel, 189 Leichhardt St, Spring Hill, ☏ +61 7 3831 5000, reception@ridgehotel.com.au. From $89.    (updated Jun 2025)
26 Rydges South Bank Brisbane, 9 Glenelg St, South Bank, ☏ +61 7 3364 0800, reservations_southbank@rydges.com. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 11AM. In the heart of Brisbane's arts and entertainment precinct, it is the closest hotel to the Queensland Performing Arts Centre. The Brisbane Convention & Exhibition Centre is immediately adjacent to the hotel and downtown Brisbane and the bohemian village of West End are a 10 min stroll away. From $169.    (updated Jan 2016)
27 The Sebel Brisbane, Corner Charlotte and Albert St, ☏ +61 7 3224 3500, H8778@accor.com. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 11AM. Distinctive refurbished boutique style rooms. From $159.    (updated Jan 2016)
28 Story Apartments, 89 Lambert St, Kangaroo Point, ☏ +61 7 3392 1300, sales@storyapartments.com.au. Offers both short-stay and long-stay accommodation, and is just a few min ferry ride from the CBD. From $209.    (updated Jun 2025)
29 iStay River City, 79 Albert St, ☏ +61 7 3246 1705, rivercity@theoaksgroup.com.au. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 10AM. This hotel offers free Wi-Fi, swimming pool access and gym facilities along with 1- and 2-bedroom apartments with views.    (updated May 2017)


=== Splurge ===
30 Capri by Fraser Brisbane, 80 Albert Street, ☏ +61 7 3013 0088, reservations.brisbane@capribyfraser.com. Check-in: 3PM, check-out: 11AM. From approx $180.    (updated Jan 2016)
31 The Valley, 1000 Ann St, ☏ +61 7 3253 6999. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 11AM. One of Brisbane's best, but at high end prices. Part of the emporium complex, the hotel has some of the best rooms and spa and gyms in Brisbane.    (updated Jan 2016)
32 Royal on the Park Hotel (corner of Alice and Albert Streets), ☏ +61 7 3221 3411, reservations@royalonthepark.com.au. Check-out: 11AM. Best Brisbane City accommodation overlooking the Botanic City Gardens and only a short walk to Brisbane's arts and entertainment precinct. From $169.    (updated Jan 2016)
33 Sofitel Brisbane Central, 249 Turbot Street, ☏ +61 7 3835 3535, h5992@sofitel.com. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 11AM. A luxury hotel above Brisbane Central Station, overlooking ANZAC Square. From $194.    (updated Jan 2016)
34 The Inchcolm by Ovolo, 73 Wickham Terrace, ☏ +61 7 3226 8888. Check-out: 11AM. From $211.    (updated Jan 2016)
35 Treasury Heritage Hotel, 130 William Street, ☏ +61 7 3306 8888. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 11AM. Large rooms in an old colonial building in the centre of the CBD. From approx $250.    (updated Jun 2025)
36 Stamford Plaza Brisbane, Corner of Margaret & Edward Streets, ☏ +61 7 3221 1999, reservations@spb.stamford.com.au. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 11AM. From $250.    (updated Jan 2016)


=== Serviced apartments ===
37 Bridgewater Terraces, 55 Baildon St, Kangaroo Point, ☏ +61 7 3391 5300. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 10AM. Within a few minutes' walk of Holman Street ferry terminal, Bridgewater Terraces consist of one, two, and three-bedroom self-contained apartments. Large lagoon pool, spa, sauna, gym, and barbeque facilities.    (updated Jun 2025)
38 Oaks Lexicon Apartments, 347 Ann St, toll-free: 1300 663 385, lexicon@theoaksgroup.com.au. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 10AM. Ann Street, Brisbane City. In the heart of the CBD, is in a contemporary building with 1 and 2 bedroom apartments. Facilities and service of a modern hotel but providing a self-contained apartment. Minutes to the Queen Street Mall, Riverside and the Brisbane Convention Centre.    
39 Evolution Apartments, 18 Tank St (close to Roma Street Train Station), ☏ +61 7 3034 3700, info@evolutionapartments.com.au. In Brisbane CBD, fully serviced and provide a media room, swimming pool, deck with BBQs and a business centre.    (updated Jun 2025)
40 Quest Woolloongabba, 130 Logan Road, ☏ +61 7 3873 3000, questwoolloongabba@questapartments.com.au. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 10AM. Apartment style hotel that was built and opened in 2014. From $140.    (updated Jan 2016)
41 Oaks Aurora Tower, 420 Queen Street, ☏ +61 7 3246 1706, aurora@theoaksgroup.com.au. Check-in: 2PM, check-out: 10AM. This hotel offers 1, 2 and 3 bedroom apartments with river and city views, located close to Queens Street Mall and Eagles St Piers precinct. Consists of recreation deck, 25-m lap pool.    (updated May 2017)


== Connect ==


=== Internet ===
Brisbane City Council now offers free Wi-Fi access in 22 parks and public spaces across Brisbane, as well as the locations around the CBD including Queen Street Mall, Reddacliff Place, Victoria Bridge, South Bank Parklands, Valley Malls, Mt Coot-tha Summit Lookout, Brisbane Libraries and on CityCats. It can be useful to do a quick email, or lookup some info - but the performance can be challenging.
Many cafes and hotels provide free Wi-Fi access to patrons, as do many shopping malls. Keep an eye out for signage (or do a scan for hotspots). McDonald's restaurants have free Wi-Fi, and most Starbucks locations offer free 60-minute access to Wi-Fi with purchase of any drink.
There are also alternatives to cafes:

Free Internet access is available at the Brisbane City Council library, although you might need to book your session in advance.
5 State Library of Queensland, Cultural Precinct, Stanley Place, South Bank, ☏ +61 7 3840 7666. M–Th 10AM–8PM, F–Su 10AM–5PM. Free Internet (including Wi-Fi) access is available at the Queensland State Library, in selected areas. The main Infocentre area is quite large and has 30-minute (no booking) and 60-minute (booking required) computers. The 60-minute computers are booked using a queuing system upon arriving at the library (no library card required). The Infocentre also has a very large lounge and desk area for those with their own laptops wishing to use the free Wi-Fi. Printing is $0.10 per page, but requires the purchase of a $2 copy card in addition to the per page cost. The library is also air-conditioned (as one might expect) so is a good place to spend some time during the scorching mid-day heat.      (updated Oct 2015)
Queensland Rail has free Wi-Fi (20MB, resets after 4 hours) on 64 of its trains. They are identified by large stickers near doors, billboards or small stickers on the inside edge of doors.  Be careful you don't have updates turned on, or your usage will last a few minutes.


=== Telephones ===
Payphones are abundant in the downtown area. For Australia wide contact options, such as mobile phones and calling cards, see the entry in Australia


== Stay safe ==


=== Crime ===
Brisbane has a relatively low crime rate in comparison to other cities of such size. In most cases being aware of your environment and using common sense will keep you safe. Like Sydney and other large cities, trains and train stations are usually considered a common crime zone throughout the afternoons and nights, however trains and stations are patrolled by Police, Transit Officers, railway personnel and private security guards. Cameras are also used to increase security. It is advised to exercise caution when travelling on trains and buses during these periods of the day.
Here are some particular areas of note:

Outer Suburbs: Tend to have a higher crime rate than inner suburbs which should be taken into account when visiting these areas.
Days: Very safe during the day, but using common sense goes a long way. Avoid gangs of people, especially if they seem trashy or obnoxious and be mindful if a questionable person approaches you.
Nights: Like most other places, outer suburbs to get more dangerous. Most suburban streets are poorly lit or have no lighting at all. It is recommended that individuals walking in these areas at night take extra precautions or venture within a group.
City Central/CBD: Usually very safe at all hours.
Days: Very safe during the day thanks to a good police presence and most people only being there for work. Though during school holidays groups of youths can congregate, especially around Queen St and South Bank and can get rather rowdy, but they usually mind their own business.
Nights: Still relatively safe at night. Police presence isn't as strong, except on Friday and Saturday nights, but you're still urged to travel with others. Be careful if catching a train at night, even though the train stations and trains are well patrolled and watched by CCTV. Treasury Casino patrons often gather outside and unwanted attention can be received late at night due to drunks. However, security is tight and the entire area around the Casino is monitored by CCTV. Take extra caution if in South Bank at night due to groups of youths congregating there.
Fortitude Valley: Police presence very strong here due to the concentration of bars.
Days: Just as safe as the CBD during the day.
Nights (especially Friday and Saturday): Taxi ranks in particular can be a little dangerous due to many frustrated drunks having to wait for cabs. Wait only at ranks that have a security guard. Stay to the well-lit busy streets and never venture off alone, especially down back-streets or far away from a crowd. Especially for females, it is recommended to travel in pairs or groups to avoid any unwanted attention from drunken revellers, especially in the early hours of the morning.
Suburban pubs: generally less safe than inner-city pubs, bars and clubs due to less police and security. Drunks can be a hassle when in the vicinity of suburban pubs, especially around closing times. Fights in these venues are common.


=== Emergency numbers ===
Throughout Australia, the number for emergency services (Police, Fire and Ambulance) is 000. When using a mobile or cell phone, the numbers 000 and 112 are free of charge, and connect using any of the available networks.
Emergency numbers such as 911 and 999 do not work within Australia.


=== Sun safety ===
Probably the worst thing that can befall your trip to Brisbane is sunburn and other heat-related issues. The local UV Index is almost always in the extreme rating during the day (10AM-3PM) and precautions should always be taken. Do not be fooled though, even in the cooler months or when it is overcast you can still be affected by UV rays or the heat.  Sunscreen, shirts, sunglasses and lots of water are essential.
The damaging effects of the Queensland sun should not be underestimated. The state has the highest per-capita rate of skin cancer in the world and tourists often come unprepared. On a sunny day in Brisbane, it is common to be sunburnt after as few as 15 minutes under the midday sun, but sunburn can also occur on overcast days. This is not exclusive to summer, but can happen all year round, even in winter.
If you are planning a long day outdoors, always cover up with sunscreen, loose clothing, a hat and sunglasses to protect yourself. Limit your outdoor physical activity in the summer until you are used to the heat. Immediately seek shade or an air-conditioned area and drink plenty of water if you are feeling the effects of heat exhaustion, including headache, nausea, dizziness, fatigue, confusion or fainting.


=== Beach safety ===
Many visitors to Brisbane take day trips to enjoy the very popular nearby beaches at Tangalooma (Moreton Island), Point Lookout (North Stradbroke Island), the Gold Coast (south) or the Sunshine Coast (north). Beaches can be great fun and very enjoyable when safe. It is important to know that most of the coastal beaches are Pacific ocean beaches with little to no protection that coves and bays provide. They can become dangerous to swim in due to strong currents, rough or powerfully-breaking waves, and various harmful marine life. Ensure you only swim at beaches where and when lifeguards are on duty and between the flags displayed in front of lifeguard observers. Check with lifeguards for any present, or potential undercurrents, rips, tows, or for the presence of bluebottles, stinging jellyfish, or other potential dangers prior to swimming. Advise the on-duty lifeguards if you are inexperienced in swimming at a beach so they can give you more attention. Avoid going past waist-deep if you are not a strong swimmer. Parents should accompany their children while they swim as rips, undertows, strong currents, and rough breaking waves can cause extreme difficulty. Sadly there have been tourists who have drowned due to inexperience with swimming in an ocean setting. Do not swim after consuming alcohol as it can affect your ability to swim and has been a contributing factor in some drowning fatalities. Avoid swimming near anyone using equipment such as surfboards, windsurfers, parasails, sailing craft or power craft such as jetskis, and motorboats.


== Go next ==
Brisbane provides a base for day trips to explore the southeast of Queensland. The North Coast of New South Wales can also be reached in an hour if traffic is light, but allow up to two hours travel if traffic is heavy or there is an accident on the Pacific Motorway. Queensland Rail also provides extensive services out of Brisbane to the north and south of the city and to the Gold Coast.
Northwest of Brisbane:

Samford Valley – about 30 mins drive north west of Brisbane CBD. A beautiful rural valley with a historic hamlet, Samford Village. A great day trip for the family.
North of Brisbane:

Glass House Mountains – about an hour north of Brisbane. There is a scenic drive through the mountains with a couple of lookouts, or you can go for a hike - easy or difficult, depending on the mountain. (Mount Beerwah offers a stern but quick scramble and a good view of the area.) There are a few small roadside shops in the area that sell homemade jams and varieties of macadamia nuts.
Beerwah – home of the Australia Zoo, run by the family of the late "Crocodile Hunter" Steve Irwin. Admission is $57 for adults.
Sunshine Coast – 90 minutes north of Brisbane, suitable for surfers without the clutter of the more famous beaches to the south. The city of Noosa and several derivatively-named cities (e.g., Noosa Heads, Noosaville) offer short and long-term accommodation, some restaurants and a few stretches of shops aimed at tourists with and without a budget.
Sunshine Coast Hinterland – 90 minutes north of Brisbane. Crafts and galleries and cafes and lots of bushwalks and scenic views in the Blackall Ranges at Maleny, Montville, Flaxton and Mapleton.
Eumundi – famous markets on Wednesday and Saturday.
North Stradbroke Island and South Stradbroke Island – amazing beaches, 4WD and fishing, accommodation, all very close to Brisbane.
Tangalooma on Moreton Island – Whilst located entirely within Brisbane - it's island location is unique to the city and a Holiday destination/neighbourhood in its own right due the need to access by scheduled boat. Dive and snorkel Tangalooma Wrecks, go sand tobogganing, 4wd safaris and day tours from Brisbane River to Tangalooma.
K'gari – World Heritage listed site, offering pristine, unspoiled lakes, dunes, forests and wildlife. Camping is possible, or day-trips can be arranged from Noosa. World's largest sand island.
Redcliffe – This peninsula located 45 minutes north is famous for its long stretch of beach, friendly locals and excellent food, shops and weather.
South of Brisbane:

Gold Coast – famous for being a tourist town, approximately 70 km south of Brisbane on the Pacific Motorway.
Dreamworld and Whitewater World – Theme park in the western Gold Coast suburb of Coomera, on the Pacific Motorway. Many large thrill rides including the 'Tower of Terror' and the 'Giant Drop' and roller coasters. There are also child-friendly rides and Australian animal attractions and shows, as well as a Tiger exhibit. Whitewater World is a water park adjacent to Dreamworld and offers the newest technology in water rides. It costs extra to get into, but you can buy a pass that gets you into both parks for a discounted price.
Movieworld – Another theme park near 'Dreamworld' and 'Wet 'n' Wild Water World.' Generally longer, more cinematic and atmospheric rides, shows and attractions.
Seaworld – aquatically-themed park sandwiched on a peninsula between the Gold Coast Seaway and the Pacific Ocean, located in Southport (just north of the Gold Coast.) A few rides, but popular for its impressive animal shows and exhibits.
Wet 'n' Wild Water World – Water park on the Gold Coast, with heated rides and pools for winter. Large number of thrill rides and also mellow relaxation areas.
Mt. Tamborine National Park – extensive areas of National Park plus arts, crafts, galleries and the like, near several forest hikes. There are some excellent fudge shops at the top of Mt. Tamborine that offer generous free samples and a staggering variety of flavours.
Surfers Paradise – tourist Mecca, and arguably the most upmarket area on the Gold Coast. Located on a life-guarded beach front, host to Caville Avenue, and several shopping malls.
Lower Moreton Bay
Moreton Bay – includes places like Moreton Island (where Scooby Doo was filmed) and St. Helena Island (a former maximum security prison for convicts.)
West of Brisbane:

Ipswich – is  40 km west of Brisbane. 45 minutes by road from Brisbane City.
Workshops Rail Museum – The whole family will enjoy the birthplace of Queensland Rail and enjoy the interactive exhibits at this award-winning museum. North Street, North Ipswich.
Brookwater Golf Club – An 18-hole Greg Norman championship golf course and Australia's No. 2 public access course.
Queensland Raceway – Queensland's premier race circuit. This is the only location near Brisbane where members of the public can drive on the same racetrack as professional drivers. Champions Way, Willowbank.
Bunya Mountains National Park – Three hours west of Brisbane. One of the oldest national parks in Queensland. Home of the ancient bunya pine and many other species of plants, birds and other animals. Stay at least three nights to have time to hike in the park.