Busan (부산, 釜山; formerly romanized as Pusan) is a large port city located in the south-eastern province of South Gyeongsang, South Korea. It is the country's second city with beautiful beaches, mountains, spas, and renowned seafood.
Busan has become a key tourist destination, especially during the summer when the beaches are packed end to end. The vibrant seafood market of Jagalchi is the most famous seafood market in Korea and walking through the older parts of the city such as Gamcheon villiage offers a sense of the past in contrast with the luxury skyscrapers along the beaches. It is also home to many events and festivals, such as the Busan International Film Festival, and the Busan International Comedy Festival (BICF) which is held in August. 


== Districts ==


== Understand ==
Located at the southern tip of the Korean peninsula and with over 3.6 million people, Busan is South Korea's second largest city. It is known for its beaches, seafood, and events such as the city's international film festival and the yearly polar bear festival. It appeals to those seeking a more laid-back atmosphere than Seoul. It has an international flair, with sailors from around the world trooping through, and a growing number of tourists.
The Haeundae area of Busan that contains a large amount of the city's attractions is described in a separate article.


=== Climate ===
Busan has a subtropical climate with hot, humid summers and mild winters. Snow is rare. Summer temperatures often exceed 30°C, and typhoons may occur from July to September. Winter is mild, with daylight lasting about 9 hours, while summer has up to 14 hours of daylight


=== Orientation ===
Busan sits roughly 450 km (280 miles) southeast of Seoul and about 150 km (93 miles) northwest of Japan's main islands.
Nampodong to the south is Busan's shopping and entertainment downtown, while central Seomyeon at the intersection of metro lines 1 and 2 is the main office building area and the most crowded area with people. Between them are Busan's train station and its international ferry terminals. The beaches of Gwangalli, Haeundae and Songjeong lie to the east, the ruins of the mountain fortress Geumjeong guard the north. To the west is Gimhae town where the Busan Airport is located.
The eastern district of Haeundae is the most accessible area for foreigners, and many of Busan's attractions can be found here making it a good base to start exploring the city.


=== Tourist information ===
Busan Tourism website


== Get in ==


=== By plane ===
Main article: Gimhae International Airport
Busan's International Gimhae Airport (PUS IATA) lies outside Busan, offering flights to many international destinations, as well as domestic routes to Jeju island, Seoul Incheon International Airport and Seoul Gimpo. The KTX and SRT high speed train services are a better alternative to flying from Seoul.
There are many options getting from Gimhae airport to Busan, including Metro train, Limousine bus, local buses and taxis. (See Gimhae International Airport article)
Korean Air and Asiana offer international connecting flights to Gimhae via Incheon, if purchased with another international flight with these carriers. Immigration procedures would occur at Gimhae.
Due to Gimhae airport operating beyond its design capacity, Busan is getting a second airport. It is scheduled to open in 2029.
The neighboring city of Ulsan also has an airport with flights from Seoul and Jeju. Busan can also be reached via this airport, and is convenient if staying in the north-eastern beaches of Busan (e.g. Songjeong, Ilgwang). Take a bus to Taehwagang station (formerly Ulsan station) and from there take the Donghae line down the coast into Busan. The journey takes 1 hour 45 minutes to Songjeong station, which is only a little longer than the journey from Gimhae airport.


=== By train ===
Busan is well connected to the Korean rail network and a main hub for fast and efficient KTX trains. 
KTX trains connect Seoul to Busan via Daegu and Daejeon. The journey takes 120–150 min (₩59,800 for an adult in economy class). Tickets can be purchased at the counter but automated English-language machines are available.
Tickets can also be purchased on the Internet Korail site with an international credit card and picked up at most stations. This is very useful when planning to travel at peak times, when all tickets can quickly sell out. You can pick up your ticket at the closest station beforehand if you prefer.
First-class provides a more comfortable seat and the upgrade can be purchased en route. Snacks can be purchased on the trains from vending machines. Each car has fast, free Wi-fi, although can cut out in tunnels.
Other trains, such as Saemaeul and Mugunghwa connect Busan with other major cities as well. They're cheaper although much slower than KTX.

1 Busan Station (부산역). Looks like a UFO that has accidentally landed in the somewhat grubby stretch between the bright lights of Nampodong and Seomyeon. The Busan 'China Town' is next to it, and Chinese dumplings are easily available. It's easy enough to get in or away on Metro Line 1, and there are lots of cheap motels and eating places in the vicinity. Downstairs from the ticket hall are a limited number of lockers, but these can quickly become occupied on busy days. At night this area could be considered dangerous by Busan's very safe standards.   (updated Jun 2023)
2 Gupo Station, Busan. It's a 1-minute walk from the 3 Gupo Metro Station on Metro Line 3. It's much smaller than Busan Station and usually uncrowded. A ticket from Gupo to Seoul is ₩1,000 cheaper than a ticket from Busan Station to Seoul. Gupo Station is ideal if you are coming or going from a place far away from Busan Station, such as Hwamyeongdong. This is also the closest KTX station to Busan Airport.   (updated Jun 2023)
4 Bujeon Station. The terminus for Mugungwha trains from Gwangju, Ulsan, Changwon, and Jinju. Some ITX and Mugungwha from Seoul and Daegu via Ulsan make a stop as well, but not the KTX. You can use metro line 1 or Donghae Line, although two stations are not connected.   (updated Jun 2023)
5 Sin-Heundae station. The KTX does not stop here but other intercity trains do. Convenient if staying in Haeundae    (updated Jun 2023)


=== By car ===
Driving and parking in Busan can be difficult, so if you just want to look around the city then public transportation will be easier. However, if you are coming to explore the area around Busan (such as going down to Geoje) then the flexibility of driving yourself will help you enjoy it more.
You can use the Hanero Card to pay toll gates in the city.
Busan is connected by three main highways:

Gyeongbu Highway connects Busan with Seoul via Daejeon and Daegu.
Gumi Highway is an alternative highway to Daegu.
Namhae Highway connects Gwangju via Jinju and Sacheon.


=== By bus ===
Almost all cities and counties in South Korea have an express bus to Busan.
There are two major bus stations:

Dongbu Intercity Bus Terminal (동부시외버스터미널), 6 Nopo Station (Line 1). For points north and east (e.g. Daegu, Gyeongju, Seoul, Ulsan).
Seobu Intercity Bus Terminal (서부시외버스터미널), 7 Sasang Station (Line 2). For points west (e.g. Jinju, Masan, Geoje Island).
Gimhae international Airport Long distances buses operate from directly outside the terminals of Gimhae (Busan) Airport to the cities of Changwon, Masan, Gimhae, Geoje, Tongyeong, Gyeongju, Pohang, Daegu, Gumi and Ulsan.
Haeundae Intercity Bus Terminal (해운대시외버스터미널) 8 Heundae station (Line 2)


=== By boat ===

Also, see the ferry times on the board (picture) to the right.

 Port of Busan. As well as a large commercial container port, also: 
9 International Passenger Terminal.  
 Cruise Terminal. 
10 Coastal Ferry Terminal, ☏ +82 51 400-3142.  
Busan has regular international ferry services to Japan. Go to the International Ferry Terminal (Metro Line 1: Jungang-dong. Go right from exit 10) where you can book tickets to Japan, as well as Japan Rail tickets.


==== From Japan ====
Tsushima island is the only part of Japan that is sometimes visible from Busan. It is known as Daemado Island in Korean. Ferries operated by Dae-a Express Shipping, carries passengers between Busan and Hitakatsu in 1 hour 40 minutes and between Busan and Izuhara in 2 hours 40 minutes.
Fukuoka: Camellia Line operates a ferry that takes about 6 hours. Adults one-way 2nd class berth fare: ¥9000 (as of Jan. 2025). A faster ferry service that had been operated by Kyushu Railway Company has been discontinued.
Shimonoseki is 13 hours away by overnight ferry.
Osaka is even further, at 19 hours away.


==== Domestic ====
The car ferry from Busan to Jeju no longer runs as of Mid-2024. The company running it (MS Ferry) appears to have gone bankrupt in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Ferries to Geoje island also no longer run.


== Get around ==


=== Transportation Card ===
You can buy Cashbee card at subway stations and convenience stores. Other cards like T-money, and Railplus are also accepted in the city. Some convenience stores also allow you to recharge a card, although not all card types are accepted,
Using the transportation card will save you money compared to paying cash. See the sections below for the exact fares.
When leaving a bus you can 'scan out' in order to have a discounted fare when you board another bus if within 30 min. Furthermore, when you "scan out" from a metro and "scan in" to a bus within 30 min then the bus fare is reduced to ₩250. Otherwise, a new fare will be deducted each time you board a service. There is no daily cap on fares.


=== By metro or light rail ===

The four lines of the Busan Metro ( 1   2   3   4 ) can connect you to most places of interest in Busan. Other rides include  Donghae  and  BGL  (Busan-Gimhae Light Rail).
Both signage and announcements are in Korean and English, so finding your way is easy. But check carefully the direction you want to go, since once you go through the gate, it may not be possible to change platforms in many stations. For example, the Green line (2) goes between Jangsan and Yangsan which is confusing to begin with.
Single ride tickets are ₩1,400 or ₩1,600 depending on distance (hang onto your ticket until you exit). Using a transportation card discounts ₩100 and allows transfer between buses,  Donghae  and  BGL . A one-day ticket (only for Line 1-4) costs ₩5,000. There are also 7-day ticket and 30-day tickets if you are planning to stay long.
The  BGL  meets up with lines  2  and  3 . The light rail provides a convenient way for transiting to Gimhae International Airport or going to Gimhae.  Donghae  line is for going to Haeundae or Songjeong, and continues north-east along the coast until terminating in the neighbouring city of Ulsan. Both lines use a slightly different fare system, although using transportation cards allows you to transfer between those with a discount.
Metro cars have specially designated seats (with obvious green stickers) for elderly, disabled and pregnant passengers. You can sit in them as long as you are prepared to give up your seat to someone who needs it. Strictly speaking, passengers are not permitted to bring large bags on the metro, however as of 2024 this rule is not enforced.


=== By train ===
There are dedicated KORAIL train stations around the city of Busan however the locations are not great and frequency of trains is low. It is almost always preferable to take the metro or bus. For example, you could take a train from Busan station to Haeundae station, however it would be more convenient to take the metro.


=== By taxi ===
There are plenty of taxis prowling the streets of Busan. The flag drop is ₩4,800 for the first 2 km, then the meter starts ticking at ₩100 for each 132 m, or every 33 seconds if the taxi is going under 15 km/h. Deluxe "mobeom" taxis (colored black and red) charge beyond ₩7,000 for the first 3 km and then ₩200 for each 160 m or 38 seconds. Fares increase by 20% between midnight and 04:00.
If you look like a foreigner, then you are liable to be directed towards a black "mobeom" at a taxi rank. However, using the cheaper regular taxis instead is no problem.
You can use the various cashless public transport cards (Hanaro, Cashbee, T-money) to pay for taxis as well. There is however no discount.
Most taxi drivers do not speak English, although some may speak Japanese, so if you can show the name in Korean of your destination it will help a lot. In Busan most taxi drivers are friendly towards foreigners, although they often assume that a foreigner wants to go a long distance such as to the airport.
Finding and catching a taxi is easy, but expect to wait a long time to find an available taxi if it is raining. As always in Korea, you enter and exit the back seat via the passenger-side door.
There are some unscrupulous taxis that may attempt to charge much higher fixed fares, as much as ₩20,000, in some areas such as around the Busan port area. Insist on using the meter and get out if your driver refuses.


=== By bus ===

Busan has a good, efficient and comprehensive city bus system. The front of the bus has the destination displayed in Korean, English and Japanese. Inside the bus the route maps are only in Korean, and the bus driver is unlikely to be able to speak English. If you plan to spend a long time in Busan then it is definitely worth learning how to use since it will open up locations to you that are not seen by most tourists. Google Maps has accurate and up-to-date bus information for navigation. Kakao Map is even better, since it shows the approaching bus location in real time, however it does not support English so well.
Bus fares are ₩1,700 (₩1,550 with a Hanaro, Cashbee or T-money card) for local buses (colored blue or green), and ₩2,200 (₩2,100 with a transportation card) for chwaseok (seated) or express buses.
It is worth using a public transport card (see Metro Section) since these can be used for transfers between buses and metro trains: just tap your card when leaving the bus via the rear door.
The front seats of the bus have yellow seat covers, which means they are designated for elderly, pregnant or disabled people. You can sit there, but please give up your seat if one of these people boards. Strictly speaking, large bags are not allowed to be taken on buses. If you try to take your big suitcase on the bus, but the driver waves you away, just try to get on the next bus. Many bus drivers do not observe this rule.
Consider taking the Busan City Tour Bus (BUTI), a hop-on, hop-off service that provides an easy way to visit major attractions like Haeundae Beach and Taejongdae. A single-day pass covers all routes departing from Busan Station, making it a convenient option for tourists.


=== By bicycle ===
South Korean cities do not have a bicycle culture and the streets of Busan are not particularly safe for cyclists; drivers are not used to them. The only options for this are in the touristic Haeundae district.


=== On foot ===
Due to the mountains and valleys, Busan lacks a natural city center and is very much spread out in every direction. This means that walking around the city is impractical.
However certain sights are clustered together in a way that makes walking around them possible.

Haeundae – Start at the beach, turn right and walk around Dongbaek island and then explore the town.
Romantic Road – Start at Haeundae beach, turn left and walk to the start of Dalmaji Hill, and then walk along the MoonTan road at the top.
Jungang – Explore the old town around the '40 steps', and then walk to Yongdusan park and Busan Tower.
Centum City – Bexco, Shinsigae Shopping Mall, Busan Cinema Center and the Busan Museum of Modern Art are all located around the Centum City metro station on the Green Line (Line 2).


== Talk ==

English in Busan is not quite as widely understood as it is in Seoul although still people should know enough to help you out. Taxi drivers are unlikely to have much English knowledge, although there is a translation service the taxi driver can call up if needed. Owing to the sizable number of Japanese tourists visiting Busan, knowing even limited Japanese may be useful since this is often understood by people working in hotels, restaurants and taxis.
Busan has a strong and distinct dialect that may be a little hard to understand if you have been studying Korean in Seoul. However, everyone in Busan will be able to understand a Seoul accent.


== See ==
See the Districts articles for more listings.


=== East Busan ===
The Haeundae area in East Busan is the main tourist destination of the city and is described in its own article.
The Suyeong (Gwangalli) area in East Busan is another noteworthy destination of the city and is described in its own article.


=== Central Busan ===

This is the old town of Busan with a lot of post-war buildings, large docks and atmosphere. This is the place to go see the heritage of the city.
The Central Busan is described in its own article.
The Hwangryeong mountain Observatory is one of the most famous spot for local people. If we go there we can see Gwangan Bridege for front and Seomyeon for the back. They provide wonderful view for visitors.


=== North Busan ===
Easy to overlook, the north part of the city has few tourist attractions. Nevertheless, it offers excellent hiking opportunities, the famous Beomeosa Temple as well as vibrant student life around the PNU university.


=== West Busan ===
The western part of the city is full of industrial parks leading to docks and the airport. There are however some nature areas preserved, such as the Nakdong River Estuary Migratory Bird Sanctuary and Taejongdae Park.


=== Address system ===
Busan has 16 city districts and 207 towns/villages. See Busan Addresses for details. The postal system is very fast. The road name address system is used in the same way as Seoul. (This is the same as the United States)


== Do ==
See the Districts articles for more listings.


=== Events ===
As Korea's second largest city, there are a large number of events.

The Busan International Film Festival is based in Haeundae in the first 10 days of October. It takes place all across Busan showcasing many international films and often some significant premieres of new Korean films. Most of the events are held on Haeundae beach where there are many tents promoting the industry and public interviews with stars.
 Polar Bear Swim (북금곰 수영대회), Haeundae Beach. A famous beach swim in the first week of January when the temperature is around 0°C. Hundreds of brave participants compete the cold in the sea. This event has run annually at the Choseon Beach Hotel since 1988. (updated Oct 2024)
 Busan International Rock Festival, Samrak Park. Busan has been holding an annual Rock festival for 12 years now in August. Mostly Korean and Asian rock bands although some Western bands do appear. 
 Sea Art Festival 2013, Songdo Beach. An art festival held on the beach every year from mid-September to mid-October. 


=== Hiking ===

The mountains around Busan have some good hiking trails. Hiking trails are not really well marked in Korea, even if you can read Korean script. Definitely do your research before you hike.
Hiking clothes are a must have fashion item in Korea these days, even if they only get used in the local mall. Prices are extremely high, so you should purchase what you need before coming to Korea.

Geumjeong Fortress in North Busan: at the top of the mountain head towards the South Gate (Nammun) of Geumjeong Fortress and then through the North Gate (Bukmun) and down to Beomeosa Temple. This has a distance of 9 km (3–4 hr).
Seokbulsa temple in North Busan is another impressive temple about 90 minutes' hike from the cable car station. It has magnificent statues carved into the mountain. Great views over Busan and very peaceful.
Jangsan Mountain in Haeundae can provide a good day's hiking. The military bases at the summit and minefields are clearly marked and fenced off, and great views over Busan and on a clear day to Japan.


=== Cinemas ===
Busan has a strong reputation for film, holding the Busan International Film Festival every year. There are cinemas in every area of the city, although unfortunately it is hard to find Korean films with English subtitles. The film festival being an exception to this.
It is really hard to get tickets to the Busan International Film Festival. People wait outside festival ticket offices for hours hoping to get something, so do some planning before traveling to Busan just for this. Haeundae beach has a public red carpet event at the beginning of the festival where you can see Korean film stars and hear them being interviewed.


=== Sports ===

Baseball Busan is home to the 'Lotte Giants' team, and home games are held at Sajik Baseball Stadium. Baseball is by far the most passionately followed sport in this city. Also, Lotte Giants has very very big fandom in Korea. So, If travelers who wants to experience a Korean stadium full of cheering, Sajik Baseball Stadium will be the best choice.
Basketball KT Sonic Boom moved to Suwon. Busan KCC Egis is based in Busan.[1]
Football (Soccer)
K-League 2: The Busan IPark football (soccer) team is based in the Busan Gudeok Stadium.
National League: The Busan Transportation Corporation football team is based at the Gudeok Stadium in Dongdaesin. They have a dedicated and regular foreigner following.
 Busan Sailing. Haeundae has the largest leisure marina in Korea located about 10 minutes away from the beach walking in the direction of the Chosun Beach Hotel. 
 Chicago Fitness Club. It is a great place to train. It has a wide range of cardio equipment, free weights (dumbbells up to 45 kg (100 lb)) and machines as well as golf practice facilities. It is located on the 5th floor of the Milligore Shopping Center in Seomyeon. 
 Busan Bandits Rugby Football Club. An expat rugby club open to all residents of Busan and surrounding provinces. They play mainly 10's rugby and compete in the Korean Expat Rugby League (KERA). No previous experience required. 


== Learn ==
KLIFF provides flexible Korean language lessons in Haeundae near the beach and in the PNU university area in the north of the city.


== Work ==
Positions teaching English are available in Busan. See the main South Korea article for details.
The Busan municipal government decided in early 2012 to phase out foreign teachers from English teaching positions in public schools. This means that English teaching opportunities will be mostly limited to the privately run Hagwons. The majority of positions are in the Haeundae district in the east, and many ESL teachers can be seen on the street around there.
Busan is much more limited than Seoul in terms of  general working opportunities. This is mainly because English is less widely spoken and the city lacks industries where foreigners can contribute, such as finance and IT. If you are an engineering background there are usually a few opportunities listed on LinkedIn.


== Buy ==
See the Districts articles for more listings.
Currency exchange is possible near Nampo-dong and Hauendae at banks such as KB (Korea Bank of Exchange), BS Bank (Busan Bank) and NH Bank. Withdrawing cash at an ATM with your foreign MasterCard or Visa is usually simple, with most cash machines have an English language option. American Express cards are more difficult to use.


== Eat ==
See the Districts articles for more listings.
Korea is justly renowned for its great seafood tradition, and Busan as Korea's main coastal city provides possibly the best opportunity to try fresh seafood caught locally.
Jagalchi fish market where most of the seafood is landed. You can turn up at 07:00 for delicious grilled fish and a variation of Korean 'hangover soup', although many experiences at both the high and low end are available to you throughout the day.
International market where everything is available at very cheap prices. You can eat Spicy Glass Noodles, Chungmu-style Gimbap and Ssiat hotteok(sweet Korean pancake stuffed with seeds).
Restaurants in Korea open and close frequently, although if an establishment listed below has closed then another good option is likely to be found close by. Korean restaurants also usually serve only a few specialty dishes, so check with your party beforehand. Vegetarians, as elsewhere in Korea, should be mindful that there are limited options in Busan.
Sister rice soup It is a restaurant that sells pork and rice soup, one of the must-eat foods in Busan. You can taste rice soup filled with pork at a low price of ₩9,000 here. Because it is located near Gwangalli, there is a characteristic that allows you to see the sea after eating.


=== Local specialties ===
There are dishes you should try in Busan that are not typically available in other parts of Korea.

Dong-nae pajeon (동래파전) is a seafood and green onion pancake, an affordable and popular Busan dish.
Daegu Tang (대구탕) is a delicious flaky cod soup with vegetables. You will find dedicated restaurants for this at the east side of Haeundae beach.
Bokguk (복국) is a soup made with pufferfish, the type of which is extremely poisonous. It is the same as Japanese fugu. There are many places in Busan licensed to prepare pufferfish, but you may want to know what you are getting into. Typically there are cartoon pictures of a fish looking like a balloon outside, so should be easy to spot.
Eomuk (어묵) is a fishcake made out of fish or other seafood and mixed with starch. It's usually fried or boiled, and collectively called nerimono in Japan. Busan is famous for eomuk, and there are many sellers and chains throughout the city, especially around Jagalchi, Ggangtong market, and Busan station.


== Drink ==
See the Districts articles for more listings.

Busan has thousands if not tens of thousands of drinking places scattered throughout the city and popular spots include Nampodong and the area around Pusan National University.
Just look around, and look up, on most streets if you are looking for a bar. Any tall commercial building is likely to have a few inside, usually with English words displayed and often the German word 'Hof' that indicated a place for eating and drinking.
The Kyeongseong University area has many selections in terms of density and sheer number of drinking establishments in Busan. Also, Kyeongseong University is located nearby Gwangalli Beach.
Gwangalli beach in Suyeong is a great place for a drink, especially at night time with the Gwangan bridge lit up over the bay.
In Haeundae, most of the bars that appeal to westerners are on the main street (Gunam-ro) between Haeundae metro station (exit 5) and the beach. Refer to the main Haeundae article for a full list.


== Sleep ==
See the Districts articles for more listings.

Budget: Many budget options are available in Busan's Haeundae district, Central Busan and Suyeong.
Love Motels: All sorts of love motels can be found throughout the city, for example near the bus terminals, and can represent a good bargain. Generally ₩30,000-50,000 per night.

Luxury: Most of Busan's luxury hotels are along Haeundae Beach. Please see the Haeundae article for more details. The hotels there usually offer ocean view and city view rooms, but be prepared to pay extra for the ocean view. Weekend rates are always more expensive than weekday rates, and rates are very high during the summer peak season which varies by hotel but is roughly July to August). Rates can also go up during special events, such as the Busan International Film Festival. Central Busan also has a couple of luxury options.


== Connect ==
Emergency Numbers
 Police, ☏ 112. 
 Fire Department, ☏ 119. 
 Tourist information Center, ☏ +82 51 253-8253,  1330. 
 Busan Station, ☏ +82 1544-7788. 
 KTX Reservations, ☏ +82 1544-8545. 
 Busan Ferry Terminal, ☏ +82 51 465-3471. 
 Busan Coastal Ferry Terminal, ☏ +82 51 400-3399. 
 Busan Express Bus Terminal, ☏ +82 51 508-9955. 
 Gimhae(Busan) International Airport, ☏ +82 1600-0636. (updated Sep 2025)


== Stay safe ==

Generally speaking Busan is as safe as most places in South Korea, which is to say very safe.
Busan is very safe to roam around freely at night. Be a little bit cautious when most bars close at around 03:00. Some bars stay open until the business dies down and in many cases this may not be until sunrise. Also take care in the area around Busan Station. If any place could be deemed seedy in Busan (which would be a stretch) this area could be considered so.
On the metro late at night, you may encounter elderly men who are rather vocal, and under the influence of alcohol, who may be unpleasant towards you. This is however unlikely to be dangerous, and you should just move to another metro car.
There are occasionally sand storms from China covering Busan. You should avoid going outside if one passes through.
Driving standards are rather erratic in Busan, even by general Korean standards. Be careful of zebra crossing without traffic lights since they are effectively ignored. Local women driving large SUVs with mobile phones glued to their ears are a common sight, as are the in-car TV entertainment systems running in many vehicles. Also be wary of motorcycles and scooters, since they tend to follow even fewer road rules and are often trying to deliver something very quickly. Switching between sidewalk and road as it suits.


=== At the beach ===

Beaches in Busan do experience riptides, and lifeguard cover outside summer is limited. Songjeong beach is very calm, shallow and safe. 
There is a tsunami warning system and signs on the beaches, although the risk of a tsunami is far less than in nearby Japan. In the unlikely event a tsunami warning is issued for Busan or the South Korean coastline, head for the top of a tall building or higher ground. Higher ground is not easily accessible on Haeundae Beach.
Every summer the local press gets very concerned about foreigners behaving badly on Busan beaches, usually by photographing Korean girls wearing bikinis, although the same press publishes similar photos of foreign women on Busan beaches. Since it can be a police matter, be careful what pictures you take on the beach.


== Cope ==


=== Consulates ===
With Seoul being so close by KTX train, the consulates in Busan do not have a lot to do. The British Consulate appears to have closed. For quick responses you should get your country's Embassy contact details in Seoul.


=== Government websites ===
The Busan government websites often provide useful tourist information in English, but then neglect to maintain them. For example, the now discontinued ferry to Geoje island is still listed as a current destination and many links to other English language pages are frequently broken. You should always double check before planning an itinerary.


== Go next ==
Gyeongju - arguably Korea's cultural capital, just over an hour away by bus or direct train
Geoje - Korea's second largest resort island, now directly accessible by bridge and slightly over an hour away by expressway bus
Jinju - a quiet city known for its fortress, 1.5 hours away by bus
Miryang - a peaceful country town and location for many Korean films, 1 hour away by bus or direct train
Ulsan - 1 hour away on the Donghae train line, where hiking abounds
Jeju Island - South Korea's favorite domestic vacation spot, reachable in 1 hour by plane.
Tsushima island, Japan, makes for a good day trip from Busan.
Fukuoka is the closest major Japanese city, just 3.5 hours away by hydrofoil (or 7 hours by regular ferry, or a 1-hour flight)
Japan. You can sail to Fukuoka or Osaka and then use the Japan Rail network. You can also purchase a Japan Rail Pass at the International Ferry Terminal.
Yangsan - a small city where can go by subway Line 2 from Busan.