Kuala Lumpur, called KL by locals, is Malaysia's federal capital and largest city at 6.5 million (city-proper population of 1.8 million). Kuala Lumpur is a cultural melting pot with some of the world's cheapest 5-star hotels, impressive shopping districts, food from all parts of the world, and natural wonders within day-trip distance.


== Districts ==
Kuala Lumpur is a sprawling city with residential suburbs that seem to go on forever. The city proper is a 243 km2 (94 sq mi) Federal Territory managed by the Kuala Lumpur City Hall and comprising eight divisions which are further split into 42 local areas, mainly for administrative purposes. The following districts have been conceptualised for visitors to Kuala Lumpur.

The combination of Old City Centre, Botanical Garden, North of City Centre and Kuala Lumpur/North, which has a rich history, is also known as the Diamond Triangle.
Beyond the Kuala Lumpur city proper are the adjacent satellite cities of Petaling Jaya, Subang Jaya, Shah Alam, Klang, Port Klang, Ampang, Puchong, Selayang/Rawang, Kajang and Sepang, all in the state of Selangor, which enclaves Kuala Lumpur. Within the same conurbation, also surrounded by Selangor, is the federal territory of Putrajaya, which is Malaysia's de facto administrative and judiciary capital. These cities all merge such that it can be hard to know where Kuala Lumpur ends and Selangor begins. The culmination of these cities is a huge metropolis known as Greater Kuala Lumpur or more commonly, Klang Valley.


== Understand ==

As in most of Malaysia’s larger cities, Malaysian Chinese form a majority of the population, at 55%, in Kuala Lumpur. Malays (who form the majority of Malaysia's population, overall), Malaysian Indians and Eurasians (people of mixed European and Asian descent) are also present in large numbers in the city. There is also a substantial number of foreign residents, including more recent immigrants and workers from South and Southeast Asia and expatriates from Western countries and the Middle East. The result is a mix of cultures that meld together to make Kuala Lumpur a modern and cosmopolitan capital.

Kuala Lumpur is said to be locked in an unofficial rivalry with nearby city-state Singapore. The ethnic Chinese-dominated Singapore was expelled from the indigenous Malay-majority Federation due primarily to irreconcilable ideological differences. Singapore strove to become a viable independent state and spurred rapid development, which the Malaysians sought to keep up with by investing in Kuala Lumpur. If Singapore has a first class airport, so does KL. When Singapore got an efficient urban transport system, so did KL. As Singapore becomes clean and green, so does KL. Everywhere you go, there are swats and strips of manicured public lawns and refreshing jungle-like parks - just like Singapore. If Singapore has an aquatic park and a bird park, so does KL. Same thing with an orchid park and butterfly park. If Singapore renovates and paints its colonial shop houses with tutti frutti colours, so does KL. If Singapore builds theme parks, so does KL. And if Singapore aims to be a shopping mecca with a plethora of shopping malls and all sorts of gimmicks, so does KL. What Singapore has, KL matches, often on an even grander scale. So if you've been to Singapore, you will have seen it all in KL, a bit of déjà vu, or vice versa.
Both cities' locations on the geographically, economically and politically important Bangkok-Jakarta corridor have favoured their growth. The two cities are built from the same cultural ingredients, though in different proportions: Chinese culture is more dominant in Singapore.
Electricity is 230V using Type G plugs. Visitors from countries with different plugs will need an adapter.


=== History ===
Founded in 1857 under British rule as a tin mining outpost, Kuala Lumpur is fairly new as far as Malaysian cities go and lacks the rich history of George Town or Malacca. Due to the success of tin mining, Kuala Lumpur began to flourish but had problems with gang fighting in the late 1800s. Following this, Kuala Lumpur faced further misfortune after much of the city burnt down in a large fire as most buildings were built from wood and thatch. As a result buildings in Kuala Lumpur were required to be built with brick and tile. After these rough early years, Kuala Lumpur began to prosper and was made capital of the Federated Malay States in 1896.
During World War II, Kuala Lumpur and the Federated Malay States were occupied by the Japanese from 1942 to 1945. During this time the economy was virtually halted. Soon after the British regained power it was declared that the Federated Malay States were to become the Malayan Union and work toward independence began. In 1952, Kuala Lumpur was one of the first cities in the Union to hold elections. Malaya's independence was declared in 1957 in front of huge crowds at what was later named Stadium Merdeka (Independence Stadium), and Kuala Lumpur continued as the new nation's capital.
In 1972, Kuala Lumpur was given city status and by 1974 became a Federal Territory of Malaysia in its own right, hence losing the title as capital city of Selangor. The economic boom of the 1990s brought Kuala Lumpur the standard trappings of a modern city, but it was severely hit by the Asian financial crisis of 1997, which stalled the Malaysian economy and led to the abandonment or delay of many construction projects, some of the partially-built structures remaining till today. Today, Kuala Lumpur has become a modern city, bristling with skyscrapers and with a modern transportation system, and is one of the world's major centres for Islamic banking. Despite this, Kuala Lumpur has still kept some of its historical charm.


=== Climate ===

As Kuala Lumpur is only 3 degrees north of the Equator, you can expect tropical weather all year round. Shielded by the Titiwangsa Mountains to the east and Sumatra to the west, temperatures are relatively cooler than other cities within Peninsular Malaysia. Expect sunny days with temperatures above 30°C (86°F) and slightly cooler evenings, particularly when afternoon showers occur and humidity is high. Rainfall can be sporadic and quite torrential at times, but usually does not last very long. During the wet season, around October to March, the northeast monsoon brings heavy rainfall that can occasionally flood some areas of Kuala Lumpur. The months around June and July could be classed as the dry season, but even then it can frequently rain.
Occasionally, due to forest fires from Sumatra around May to October, haze can blanket the city and surrounding regions, and it is best to remain indoors if you suffer from asthma.
As the weather can be hot and humid during the day, try to dress lightly if you expect to be outside and, while it may seem obvious, don't forget to remain hydrated. Also keep in mind that mosques and some temples have strict dress codes, although many do supply gowns to cover you if you are inadequately dressed. If you do find it too hot to be outside, consider going to a shopping mall to relax and work that credit card in air conditioned comfort.


== Talk ==
As befitting the nation's capital, Malay is universally spoken and understood by locals in Kuala Lumpur.
However, as Malaysia's largest city, Kuala Lumpur is also home to Malaysians of many different ethnic and cultural backgrounds, and this is often reflected in the number of languages that are used by locals in daily life. The lingua franca of the Chinese community is Cantonese, and most of the ethnic Chinese can speak Cantonese regardless of their native dialect, with a significant number also able to speak Mandarin. Cantonese in Kuala Lumpur has diverged somewhat from the varieties spoken in Hong Kong and Guangzhou, incorporating loan words from Malay and other Chinese dialects such as Hokkien and Hakka which are not used in the Cantonese varieties outside Malaysia (for instance you will often hear 箍 kāu instead of 蚊 mān being used to refer to the ringgit as a unit of currency). Nevertheless, all Cantonese speakers from Kuala Lumpur can understand Cantonese speakers from Hong Kong and Guangzhou without any problems, and people are usually happy to adjust their speech to a more standard form when talking to foreigners.
Kuala Lumpur is also home to many ethnic Indians, most of whom are native speakers of Tamil.
English is also widely spoken, and English-speaking tourists generally should not have a problem getting around.
Other European languages, like French, Spanish, and German, are rarely spoken, and you may be lucky if someone is fluent in these languages in Kuala Lumpur.


== Get in ==
Malaysia's transportation systems function well, by regional standards. Planes, trains, buses, and taxis are linked in a system conceived and constructed by, if not an order-loving person, at least a dedicated amateur. The planners' aims are an ultra-modern, chic, European-style system that are a far cry from the city's humble barrio beginnings. The reality is a sound B+ with still a long way to go before hitting the top. A bewildering jumble of initials and acronyms assault any first time journey planner in KL, and it will take at least a day to decipher the scheme of things.


=== By plane ===
Kuala Lumpur is served by two airports: Kuala Lumpur International Airport is the main airport and served by all long-distance jet flights, whilst Subang Airport is limited to regional flights.

1 Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KUL IATA). The primary airport serving Kuala Lumpur, 50 km south of Kuala Lumpur in the Sepang district of Selangor. The airport opened in 1998 and superseded Sultan Abdul Aziz Shah Airport in Subang, which is now only used for regional flights. Over 50 airlines call at KLIA. The airport has two terminals, with Malaysia Airlines and other mainline carriers at the "main" KLIA, and Air Asia and other low-cost carriers using KLIA2. They are connected to each other (3 minutes) and the city (28-33 min) by the KLIA Ekspres train.      (updated Feb 2023)
2 Sultan Abdul Aziz Shah Airport (SZB  IATA). More commonly referred to as Subang Airport, this was the city's main airport until KLIA opened. Most flights from here are domestic turboprops, but jets were allowed back in 2024 and there's limited but growing service to Singapore and Jakarta. The airport is much closer to the city centre and less crowded than KLIA. The airport is 25 km from the city centre and the convenient way to get there is by taxi. An alternative is to take Rapid KL bus 772 (destination: Subang Suria/Mah Sing) from Terminal Jalan Sultan Mohammad next to Pasar Seni LRT station, which goes past the airport. The ride takes approximately 40 min in clear traffic. It can take nearly 1h 30min during peak rush hour. Firefly and SKS Airways are the main airlines offering scheduled services to the airport. Note that Firefly's flight to Singapore uses the secondary airport at Seletar, not the main airport at Changi; likewise, TransNusa's Jakarta services go to Halim, not Soekarno-Hatta.      (updated Feb 2023)


=== By train ===

The government owned Keretapi Tanah Melayu (Malayan Railway or KTM) operates intercity (antarabandar) diesel rail services throughout Peninsular Malaysia. Trains arriving in Kuala Lumpur call at 3 KL Sentral, the modern transportation hub in Brickfields, just south of the city centre, and operates across Malaysia with connections to Butterworth (for Penang), Ipoh and Padang Besar and southwards to Johor Bahru with a change at Gemas. As of 2020, direct trains into Singapore and Thailand have been discontinued from Kuala Lumpur. To get to Singapore, you will need to change trains twice, at Gemas and Johor Bahru, while to get to Thailand, you will need to change trains at Padang Besar. Whilst still slow southbound (it's often quicker to catch the coach from TBS especially for Johor Bahru), it's the fastest option for northbound destinations.
The Electric Train Service (ETS) operates intercity electric rail services throughout Peninsular Malaysia. Services run between Padang Besar, at the Thai border, Butterworth (for ferry connections to George Town, Penang), and Kluang in Johor, calling at major destinations along the way. All trains call at two stops in KL. At Gemas you can transfer from the Jungle Railway from Wakaf Bharu, as well as from diesel trains originating in Johor Bahru (near the border with Singapore).
Kuala Lumpur railway station is the old, British-built transport hub, convenient for Chinatown. It has direct rail connections to the Seremban and Port Klang lines. It also has indirect rail connections to the Kajang and Kelana Jaya lines. KL Sentral railway station is the new, purpose-built transport hub, convenient for Brickfields. It has direct rail connections to the Kelana Jaya, Seremban, Port Klang, Skypark Link, KLIA Ekspres and KLIA Transit lines. It also has indirect rail connections to the Kajang and KL Monorail lines.
Taxi services are available at both stations, but you will find more at KL Sentral and can purchase a taxi coupon when there so that drivers cannot overcharge. See the Get Around section for more information.
Tickets for KTM Komuter and ETS trains can be purchased at the KTM Intercity ticket office on level two of KL Sentral or other stations which trains call at. You can also purchase your ticket online at the KTM e-booking site up to two months in advance, but remember to print out the e-ticket or download the mobticket app. Additionally, timetables and seat availability can be found on the main KTM website.
Belmond runs its luxury excursion train Eastern & Oriental Express two to three times per month between Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur and Singapore. The price of a ticket matches the on-board extravaganza, starting at US$3,000.


=== By boat ===
Kuala Lumpur is not by the sea, so it is not possible to get in directly by boat. The nearby Port Klang, about 40 km west of Kuala Lumpur, serves as the main port for this region. Ferries operate international services from Sumatra, Indonesia and a domestic service to Pulau Ketam. Cruise ships also call at Port Klang, usually on the way to other destinations in Asia, allowing for a day trip to Kuala Lumpur. For more information refer to the Port Klang article.


=== By bus ===
Buses are a cheap, comfortable and popular transport option for Malaysians, with services reaching virtually all corners of Peninsular Malaysia and also to Thailand and Singapore. So it is no wonder that Kuala Lumpur has several bus stations (stesen bas or hentian) to handle long distance bus services. Despite the complexity of the network there is some pattern to the madness, with buses departing from particular stations depending on the region they travel to or from. To top that off, some buses may arrive at other locations including Kuala Lumpur Railway Station, Bangsar LRT Station, Corus Hotel and the Malaysian Tourist Centre (MTC). Always confirm with the bus company where your bus will depart so that you do not miss your bus. In some cases you may need to exchange your ticket for a boarding pass, so try to arrive at the bus terminal 10–15 minutes before the departure time, although bus companies suggest 30 minutes.


==== Bus terminals ====
4 Pudu Sentral (formerly Hentian Puduraya), Jl Pudu (linked to Plaza Rakyat LRT Station), ☏ +60 3 2078-6018. The most central bus station in Kuala Lumpur, serving northbound buses. Pudu got a major facelift and air-conditioning in 2011, and could now stand in for an airport. However, ticketing and information is still not centralized, so finding the next bus to your destination still requires a lot of walking around. Tickets to services departing from other stations are also available. Taxis are on the prowl around the station and can be pushy and may not use the meter. Always negotiate a price beforehand if you want a taxi or the alternative is to head to the nearby LRT station.      
5 Terminal Bersepadu Selatan (TBS), Jl Terminal Selatan (linked to Bandar Tasik Selatan Station), ☏ +60 3 9051-2000. This gigantic and ultra-modern terminal serves southbound destinations, including Malacca, Johor Bharu and Singapore. Despite its less than central location it is extremely well connected by public transport and taxis. Three train services, KTM Komuter, Sri Petaling LRT and KLIA Transit call at this bus station, making it easy to reach from Kuala Lumpur and KLIA.      
6 Hentian Duta (Duta Bus Terminal), Persiaran Tuanku Syed Sirajuddin, ☏ +60 3 6201-4970. A small bus station serving express northbound services. There are no direct public transport services to this station. The nearest bus stop is 500 m north-west of the station close to Federal Territory Mosque. The busses there serve KL Sentral. It is more convenient to hail a taxi though.    
7 Pekeliling Bus Terminal, Jl Tun Razak (near Titiwangsa LRT & Monorail stations), ☏ +60 3 4042-1256. This terminal handles some bus services to the East Coast, including Taman Negara and Local bus services.    


==== Bus companies ====
There are quite a few bus companies that arrive and depart from Kuala Lumpur. Below is a list of the major companies. This is by no means an exhaustive list.

 Transnasional, ☏ +60 3 2070-3300. Malaysia's biggest long-distance bus company. Economy class departures to Singapore's Lavender Street terminal at 08:45, 10:30, 13:30, 17:30, 22:30 & 23:59 - it takes 5 hr. 
 Konsortium Bas Ekspres Semenanjung, ☏ +60 3 2070 1321. Has several buses daily to/from the Golden Mile complex in Singapore. 
 Alisan Golden Coach Express, Hentian Pudu Raya, ☏ +60 3 2032 2273. Have three buses every day which leave Kuala Lumpur to Hatyai, departure at 9AM, 10PM, and 10:30PM, 7-hr journey. 
 StarMart Express, ☏ +60 3 21431666. Leaves to Singapore from Bukit Bintang. Tickets available there. RM45 next to Berjaya Times Suare (Jalan Imbi, under the monorail station) 


=== By car ===
Most important roads in Peninsular Malaysia lead to/from Kuala Lumpur. The city lies about midway along the North-South Expressway (Motorway) (NSE; route numbers E1 and E2) which runs from the Malaysia-Thailand border at Bukit Kayu Hitam, Kedah to Johor Bahru in the south, on the Malaysian side of the Causeway to Singapore. The main expressway exits for Kuala Lumpur on the NSE are Jalan Duta (from the north) and Sungai Besi (from the south).
The Kuala Lumpur-Karak Expressway (E8), which later turns into the East Coast Expressway, links Kuala Lumpur with the East Coast cities Kuantan and Kuala Terengganu. For those who do not want to pay toll, Kuala Lumpur is on Federal Route One (the "Trunk Road") which, like the NSE, runs through all West Coast states of Peninsular Malaysia from Bukit Kayu Hitam, Kedah to Johor Bahru. Those travelling along the West Coast Road (Federal Route Five) should leave the road at Klang and get to Kuala Lumpur via the Federal Highway.


== Get around ==
Kuala Lumpur's public transport system is fairly efficient and convenient, but much room for improvement lies in its integration. The city suffers from paralysing traffic jams throughout the day. Consider combining various methods of public transport to avoid this.


=== Fares ===
Touch 'n Go is a reloadable smart card that can be used to pay for all public transport throughout the city. The card costs RM10 plus the amount you wish to load. The card can be purchased at all RapidKL ticket counters (lines 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 12), some convenience stores (FamilyMart, MyNews), some gas stations, or at the Touch 'n Go service centre in Nu Sentral shopping mall (KL Sentral station). Self service reload machines are available at some RapidKL stations. There is a discounted rate on travel if one uses the card instead of a token.

Mastercard, Visa, AMEX, JCB and UnionPay contactless cards are accepted for travel on KTM and ERL lines (lines 1, 2, 6, 7, 10). Simply tap your card on the fare gates and away you go, no ticket required. Contactless cards are not yet accepted for travel on RapidKL lines (lines 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 12) as of August 2025.


=== By train ===
The rail network is operated by RapidKL (lines 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 12), KTM (lines 1, 2, 10) and ERL (lines 6, 7).
The lines follow intervals that change with the time of the day and the day of the week. Line frequencies are typically 4-7 minutes on weekends, and 2-3 minutes at peak hours. Expect a slightly longer wait for the monorail. Service disruptions on rapid transit are relatively rare.
Signposts and announcements are your friend; they are normally extremely clear and are in both Malay and English. The Kajang, Seremban and Port Klang lines have special women-only carriages; male passengers will be fined for riding in them. The system can take a while to get familiar with, due to sometimes illogical design decisions e.g. some interchanges. Don't hesitate to ask a member of the station staff (most will be able to speak English decently) for directions, or a fellow commuter (those who are smartly dressed are most likely to speak English fluently).

Most lines travel through Kuala Lumpur's main transport hub, KL Sentral.


==== RapidKL lines ====
The Kajang line (line 9) runs between Kwasa Damansara and Kajang. There are interchange stations at Muzium Negara (many lines, KL Monorail is a particularly long transfer), Pasar Seni (with Kelana Jaya), Bukit Bintang (with KL Monorail), Maluri (with Ampang Line) and Kajang (with Seremban). The Kajang line stops at Muzium Negara which is physically linked to KL Sentral.
The Putrajaya line (line 12) runs between Kwasa Damansara and Putrajaya. There are interchange stations at Kampung Batu (with Seremban), Titiwangsa (with Ampang, Sri Petaling, KL Monorail), and Tun Razak Exchange (with Kajang).
The Ampang line (line 3) can be used for access to Chinatown and Pudu Sentral Bus Station at Plaza Rakyat station. There are relatively simple interchanges at Titiwangsa (with Putrajaya, KL Monorail), Masjid Jamek (with Kelana Jaya), and Hang Tuah (with KL Monorail). The interchanges at PWTC, Bandaraya and Sultan Ismail require exiting the paid area of the station and walking a long distance with no escalators or lifts.
The Sri Petaling line (line 4) merges with the Ampang line at Chan Sow Lin station.
The Kelana Jaya line (line 5) travels through several key tourist areas including Pasar Seni station for Chinatown and the central market, KLCC station for the Petronas Towers and Suria KLCC shopping centre. It also stops by the shopping and foodie areas of Subang Jaya, which are worth a stop. Additionally you can alight at Masjid Jamek station (this station can be confusing, please make sure of which direction you are heading in, which is indicated by terminus instead of compass direction) and transfer to the Ampang/Sri Petaling lines without leaving the ticketed area. Important interchange stations are at KL Sentral and Masjid Jamek.
The Shah Alam line (line 11) travels between Bandar Utama and Johan Setia.
The KL Monorail line (line 8) is an entirely elevated line that loops through the Golden Triangle in a semi-circle. Use this line for access to Bukit Bintang, a major shopping area, or Bukit Nanas, for clubbing at Jalan P. Ramlee. The monorail gets extremely congested at peak hours, and an 8-12 minute wait for a train does happen occasionally. The line provides a transfer at KL Sentral station but be aware this entails a 200-m walk under a sheltered walkway. The way between the two is signposted and generally has a steady stream of people you can follow. There is a bank of escalators leading up to a shopping mall, Nu Sentral, at the eastern end of the KL Sentral concourse. Take the escalator. Follow the signposts and the metal tactile marking on the floor until you reach another escalator. Descend this escalator. The monorail station will be visible through the glass doors. The line provides a transfer at Bukit Nanas station but be aware this also entails a 200-m walk under a sheltered walkway. The line provides a transfer at Bukit Bintang, although exiting and re-entering the system is required.


==== KTM lines ====
The Seremban, Port Klang, and Skypark Link lines (lines 1, 2 and 10) run between the city centre and the suburbs. These lines are not as frequent or as efficient as the others in Kuala Lumpur and it is not odd for trains to be running late either. Despite this, the rolling stock is quite modern and it's a great way to travel to the Batu Caves and Mid Valley Mega Mall.


==== ERL lines ====
The KLIA Ekspres line (line 6) runs non-stop between KL Sentral and Kuala Lumpur International Airport, taking 28 minutes. The fare is RM55.
The KLIA Transit line (line 7) runs all stops between KL Sentral and Kuala Lumpur International Airport, taking 36 minutes. Stops include Salak Tinggi, Putrajaya/Cyberjaya and Bandar Tasik Selatan.


=== By bus ===

Double-decker KL Hop-on Hop-off sightseeing tour buses serve 42 notable places. There is free Wi-Fi on board. An information commentary is given through headphones. Tickets (valid for 24 or 48 hr) give unlimited use during their validity. Children under 5 ride free.
The buses are scheduled every half hour but waits may be as long as two hours due to traffic jams, so try to maximize use of the service outside rush hours.

Central Business District (CBD) has free bus services known as Go KL City Bus with four circular bus routes. The Purple Line starts at Pasar Seni and travels to the shopping area of Bukit Bintang, where it links up with the Green Line looping around KLCC. The Red Line connects the North of CBD with the South, linking KL Sentral to Jalan Tuanku Abdul Rahman through the Chow Kit area. At Medan Mara it meets the Blue Line, which goes on from there to join the per-existing lines at Bukit Bintang. The buses get very crowded during peak hours, but are efficient and clearly signposted. There are announcements in Malay and English.

RapidKL operates a cheap and comprehensive public bus network in and around Kuala Lumpur, but low frequencies (2-3 per hour on most routes) and the near-total lack of signs makes this a poor option for the casual visitor. The buses have clear destination information so if you happen upon one heading in the right direction, jump on board, though be prepared for cramped waits in rush hour traffic.
RapidKL buses are broadly divided into two categories:

Utama (no letter) buses travel to outlying suburbs
Tempatan (T) buses are feeder services for train stations
You must use a Touch 'n Go card, there is no option to pay by bank card or cash for RapidKL routes. Tap in at the reader near the driver (you may need to hold the card for 2-3 seconds until it beeps). Tap out at the reader near the middle doors, so the system will calculate your exact fare when you exit, or you will be charged the highest possible fare.
The BRT Sunway line is an elevated bus rapid transit line (part of the RapidKL network) and is useful for visiting attractions like Sunway Lagoon and Sunway Pyramid. It interchanges with RapidKL at USJ7 and KTM at Setia Jaya. Frequency is similar to that of the rapid transit networks.
BET (Bus Expressway Transit) services use the highways and cost a flat RM3.80.
Buses run from 6AM-11PM or so, with no night services.


=== By taxi ===

The best way to get around Kuala Lumpur is by Grab, originally a Malaysian company and now the Southeast Asia equivalent to Uber.  With up-front fares, an English interface and easy, traffic-aware navigation, it's much simpler than relying on taxis and usually cheaper too.  (Surge pricing exists in KL as well, but typically at times when taxis also ask for inflated fares.)  You'll need to download the app, but Grab allows passengers to pay fares in cash, so you do not need to register a credit card.
Normal red and white taxis (RM3 first 2 km, then around RM0.90/km) and bright blue executive taxis (RM6 flagfall + a slightly higher per kilometre rate) can also be reasonable options if you can get them to use the meter. There are also various small surcharges for radio call (RM2), baggage (RM1 per piece), etc.  After midnight, meter prices are increased by 50% (e.g. at 1AM, if the meter shows RM12, you pay RM12+6).
Drivers are less likely to use the meter when demand exceeds supply, such as during the rush hour or when it rains. Prices then become negotiable (before setting off) and inflated (2-10 times the meter price). This is illegal but realistically the only thing you can do is walk away and find a different driver (by law they are required to use the meter). A cab hailed off the street is more likely to use the meter than one that stalks tourist spots. If stuck with a driver that won't use the meter, negotiate hard: RM5 should cover most cross town trips of 15min or so, even with traffic. If you are staying in an expensive hotel, hide your affluence and give a nearby shopping mall as your destination instead.
During rush hour it's generally best to combine public transport with taxis.
A few popular places (notably both airports, KL Sentral, Menara KL and Sunway Pyramid Megamall) enforce a prepaid coupon systems, which generally work out more expensive than using the meter, but cheaper than bargaining. Taxis from Pavilion Shopping Mall's taxi counter cost the meter with a RM2 surcharge.
Some taxi drivers will hang around near hotels offering tours similar to those offered by established companies. Some of these drivers are quite knowledgeable and you may end up with a specially tailored, private tour for less than the cost of an official tour. Know the going rates before driving a bargain!
If you get so off the beaten track that you need to call a cab, here are some telephone numbers:

 Comfort Cabs, ☏ +60 3 6253-1313. 
 Sunlight Taxi Unicablink, ☏ 1300 800 222 (local rate). 
 Public Cab, ☏ +60 3 6259-2020. 
 Uptown Ace, ☏ +60 3 9283-2333. 
 Keeganlam Executive Taxi services, ☏ +60 17 663-2696. 
 Executive Taxi Tour Service, ☏ +60 14 267-5934. 


=== By car ===
Kuala Lumpur has good quality roads, but driving in the city can be a nightmare with massive traffic jams, a convoluted web of expressways and often-confusing road signage. If driving, be especially aware of sudden lane changes by cars and reckless motorcyclists who tend to weave in and out of traffic.
Do not park in the road in busy districts such as Bangsar or Bukit Bintang because other cars might block you by parking next to you in the 2nd or 3rd lane. Use covered car parks or park a bit off the beaten path, and then walk back.
Renting a car is an option for travelling in Kuala Lumpur and other parts of Malaysia.


=== On foot ===
Walking in Kuala Lumpur is a distinctly mixed bag. The old centre of Kuala Lumpur fairly compact and the old buildings in various state of repair are great for exploring on foot. Even plodding between the colonial area and the new glass and steel sector (see walking tour below) is enjoyable outside the hottest hours of 11AM-4PM. Major roads are well lit, making evening strolling undaunting and pleasant. Signs are clear and well placed and pavements are wide and uncluttered, but slippery in the rain. Shady tree-lined walkways provide shade on some of the larger roads.
That said, crossing major roads can be a pain, traffic light cycles are very long and outside them drivers rarely yield to pedestrians. Then, especially outside of the centre, you have a lot of gated communities, making it hard to take straight routes on foot. The suburban parts of Kuala Lumpur tend to assume everyone has a car and are quite pedestrian-hostile, not even having sidewalks. Jaywalking is illegal (on-the-spot fine: RM20/30 for tourists/locals if unlucky) but is generally overlooked.
A nice sightseeing walk through downtown KL can be found in the itinerary KL Sightseeing Walk.


=== Accessibility ===
Like many cities in South East Asia, Kuala Lumpur presents a great challenge for travellers with mobility impairments. Sidewalks are often in disrepair, curbs are high, and curb cuts are often missing or inadequate. Wheelchair users will frequently find their path of travel obstructed by poorly designed or narrow sidewalks, parked cars, motorcycles, fences, stairs, trees, etc., and will rarely be able to travel more than 50 meters without having to backtrack or divert to the road. In many areas of the city, it is virtually impossible to travel without an assistant. Crossing the road or having to wheel on the road (in case the sidewalk is obstructed) can be very dangerous, as many drivers do not expect, nor yield to, wheelchair users. You will occasionally find accessibility features like ramps or elevators obstructed or unserviceable. A notable exception are the KLCC and Bukit Bintang areas, where shopping malls and pedestrian areas are built to modern accessibility standards. Public buildings, hotels and malls provide an adequate supply of handicap bathrooms. Many locals will not be used to seeing travelers in wheelchairs, but will generally be helpful.
Accessibility for the disabled varies between public transport modes. The Kajang, Putrajaya, KLIA Ekspres, and KLIA Transit lines are fully accessible, and even have facilities for the hearing impaired to pipe announcements through their hearing aids. The Ampang, Sri Petaling, Kelana Jaya, Shah Alam, and KL Monorail lines are mostly accessible to the blind and wheelchair-bound, though once out of the station it may be difficult getting around without an assistant. The Seremban, Port Klang, and Skypark Link lines are sometimes accessible to the blind and wheelchair-bound, but accessibility varies by station and should not be relied upon as a given. The BRT Sunway line is accessible. Additionally, some regular buses are equipped with ramps, but they are assigned haphazardly and do not run on a fixed schedule.


== See ==
Individual listings can be found in Kuala Lumpur's district articles

When people think of Kuala Lumpur the first thing that comes to mind is probably the Petronas Towers, which is in the Golden Triangle. Whilst they most certainly are an architectural delight (particularly at night), there is much more to be discovered in Kuala Lumpur. Competing with the Petronas Towers is KL Tower (Menara KL), which looks oddly similar to other famous skyscrapers. The real joy of Kuala Lumpur lies in wandering randomly, seeing, shopping and eating your way through it.
Being part of a former British colony, many colonial buildings are scattered throughout, with many borrowing themes from British, Indian and North African architecture. The grandest colonial buildings lie in the city centre including the old Kuala Lumpur Railway Station, the charming Masjid Jamek at the confluence on the Klang River and the former offices of the Colonial Secretariat (now the Sultan Abdul Samad Building) on Merdeka Square (Dataran Merdeka). To top it off on Merdeka Square's west side, you will find the Royal Selangor Club, looking like a rejected transplant straight from Stratford-upon-Avon.
The National Mosque, Masjid Negara, (1965) celebrates the bold ambitions of the newly independent Malaysia. The National Monument in the pretty Botanical Garden is inspired by the Iwo Jima Memorial in Arlington, Virginia. Also in the Botanical Garden is Carcosa Seri Negara, the former residence of the British High Commissioner, which now houses an upmarket hotel and colonial-style tea rooms.
Within the city centre is also the fascinating narrow streets of Chinatown, Kuala Lumpur's traditional commercial district, with its many Chinese shops and places to eat.


=== Nature and wildlife ===
While Kuala Lumpur is more of a concrete jungle compared to other parts of the country, it is still easy enough to delve into nature. The Forestry Research Institute of Malaysia (FRIM) is a great escape from the busy life of Kuala Lumpur for RM5.30. The hikes are easy and you can go up a canopy walkway for RM10.60 to get a good view of KL on a clear day. There is a nice tea house in the FRIM compound where you can sample various types of local teas and snacks. Get there early as it is more likely to rain later in the day. You can get to FRIM via KTM Komuter. Stop at Kepong or Kepong Sentral and grab a short taxi ride.
For something more centrally located try the Bukit Nanas Forest Reserve, located at the base of Menara KL. The forest provides for an easy trek that you can enjoy on your own; but the many specimens are likely more appreciated through guided tours which are free and can be arranged from KL Tower. The massive Perdana Botanical Garden (formerly Lake Garden), located in the western part of the Old City Centre is another great option and you could literally spend a whole day venturing around the park. Within the Botanical Garden are many attractions and various parks including the KL Bird Park, Orchid Garden, Hibiscus Garden, Mouse Deer Park and a Butterfly Park. An indoor alternative is the Aquaria KLCC, in the Golden Triangle near the KL Convention Centre. The aquarium contains some 5,000 varieties of tropical fish.


=== Itineraries ===
KL Sightseeing Walk


== Do ==
Individual listings can be found in Kuala Lumpur's district articles

Kuala Lumpur is well known for its wide range of shopping and eating options, which are adequately covered in the Eat and Buy sections of this article and listings within the district articles. Skyscraper Gazing is the obvious option, with glass and steel abound and excellent views available from the Petronas Towers or the KL Tower (Menara KL) viewing decks, both located in the Golden Triangle.


=== Arts & Culture ===
Like much of Kuala Lumpur, there is an interesting mix of arts and culture to experience, ranging from traditional Malay to Islamic to  modern. Several good theatres and performance halls have emerged as part of Malaysia's drive to encourage greater cultural expression. These include the National Theatre (Istana Budaya) and the Kuala Lumpur Performing Arts Centre in the northern part of the city, the Malaysian Philharmonic Orchestra (Dewan Filharmonik) in the Twin Towers, and the Actors Studio at Lot 10. Leading museums in the Old City Centre are the National Museum, which covers the region's history, and the well-regarded Islamic Arts Museum, which houses a small but captivating collection.


=== Pampering ===
Pampering and spas can be found in several five-star hotels and independent centres in the Golden Triangle. There's also nail parlours and beauty salons, which are generally good value, there's also high-end ones offering similar services for a premium. Reflexology and foot massage places are everywhere, especially in Bukit Bintang in the Golden Triangle and in Chinatown.
For those who are willing to be a bit more adventurous, try hunting down a fish foot spa and relax whilst fish nibble away at your feet. However do be careful which one you go to as some are of low standard and you may get an infection or even a blood borne disease. Try a fish spa in a tourist area as these tend to be better maintained.


=== Sports ===
Urban sports such as golfing, cycling, running, jogging and horse riding are common in Kuala Lumpur. If you’re into rock climbing, the Batu Caves in the Northern suburbs is popular. However given Malaysia's stunning terrain, you’re better off heading to other places for anything more strenuous or challenging.
You can also watch the local football match at the KLFA Stadium in Cheras. Kuala Lumpur FA is a football team based in Kuala Lumpur and plays in the top division of football in Malaysia, the Malaysia Super League. Match schedule and fixture can be seen at the KLFA website.


=== Volunteer ===
Volunteering is not often the first thing you may considering doing when in Kuala Lumpur, however there are various projects to give your time and help out the community. Regardless of spending one day or even a week or more volunteering for a cause, you will probably find something that you are interested in. Below are some volunteering options available within Kuala Lumpur.

 Nur Salam (Chow Kids), 24A-B Jl Chow Kit, ☏ +60 3 4045 4021. Volunteer with the street kids of Chow Kit (KL) to "help improve the quality of life for the children of Chow Kit whose parents are usually former and current drug addicts & sex workers in Kuala Lumpur". Chow Kids offers training for volunteers who wish to spend any amount of time interacting and helping these deserving children. 
 SPCA Selangor, Jl Kerja Air Lama, 68000 Ampang, Selangor, ☏ +60 3 4256 5312, +60 3 4253 5179. SPCA Selangor is an animal welfare organisation dedicated to protecting defenseless animals and to alleviate their suffering. Volunteer to help out at the animal shelter, SPCA's marketing and communication department or SPCA's outreach events. 
 Zoo Negara, Hulu Kelang, Ampang, Selangor, ☏ +60 3 4108 22219, education@zoonegaramalaysia.my. Love animals? Volunteer at the National Zoo - Zoo Negara outside the city. Simply fill out the Volunteer Form on the website and show up for a shift at the zoo in a variety of areas. Their volunteer website gives for more information. 


== Buy ==
Individual listings can be found in Kuala Lumpur's district articles

Being the retail and fashion hub of Malaysia it is no surprise that shopping is one of Kuala Lumpur’s greatest pleasures. From the local pasar pagi (morning market) and pasar malam (night market) to top end shopping malls and everything in between, you will be sure to find something to suit your budget and style. Many shopping options also exist beyond the city proper in the adjacent satellite cities of Petaling Jaya and Subang Jaya. For more information on shopping in these areas please refer to the buy section of these articles.


=== Shopping malls ===
Suria KLCC is one of Malaysia's premier shopping destinations due to its location beneath the Petronas Twin Towers.
Kuala Lumpur's premier shopping district, the Bukit Bintang area in the Golden Triangle, resembles Tokyo's Ginza, New York's Fifth Avenue and Singapore's Orchard Road and has the highest concentration of shopping outlets in Kuala Lumpur, which cater to varying budgets. Bukit Bintang, which is part of the Kuala Lumpur's Golden Triangle, spans over 3 roads, namely Jalan Bukit Bintang, Jalan Imbi and Jalan Sultan Ismail. It houses various cafes, alfresco (open air) dining outlets and shopping complexes such as Berjaya Times Square, Imbi Plaza, Fahrenheit88, Lot 10, Low Yat Plaza, Pavilion KL, The Starhill, Sungei Wang Plaza and LaLaport Bukit Bintang City Centre.
Pavilion Kuala Lumpur houses a wide range of international retail brands in an ultra-modern complex, and the adjacent The Starhill is also home to a number of luxury watch and jewellery retailers, and the Malaysian flagship of Taiwanese bookstore chain eslite. Fans of electronic gadgets would delight in the multitude of choices at Low Yat Plaza, whilst shoppers hunting for the latest in affordable Asian style should definitely check out Berjaya Times Square and Sungei Wang Plaza. It is also the location of the largest single department store in Malaysia, SOGO Kuala Lumpur which is located at a landmark site on Jalan Tuanku Abdul Rahman, one of the best known shopping streets for locals in Kuala Lumpur. Just outside the Bukit Bintang Area, near Tun Razak Exchange MRT station, is The Exchange TRX, another luxury shopping mall with both top end and mid-ranged international brand, as well as a rooftop park and numerous alfresco dining options.
Several popular malls lie outside the Golden Triangle. The Bangsar and Midvalley areas are home to some of the best shopping malls in Kuala Lumpur, namely the MidValley Megamall and the adjacent upmarket The Gardens, the more cozy Bangsar Village and Bangsar Shopping Centre in Bangsar. Nearby Subang Jaya is home to Sunway Pyramid Megamall, known for its Egyptian-themed architecture.


=== Markets ===
Despite the onslaught of malls, Kuala Lumpur still offers some Asian tradition with traditional shopping streets and markets. An area for such shopping mostly aimed at tourists is Chinatown (aka Petaling Street) in the City Centre. This district is the best place to hunt for souvenirs, fake brands, watches, snacks and meals. Bargain hard! Nearby you can also find the Central Market, a former produce market which has been converted into an art and craft market. It is also known as Pasar Seni in Malay.
The Little India near Jalan Masjid India offers various fabric for use. Most of the fabrics are imported from countries like Indonesia, India and China while some are locally produced. Indonesian traditional batik and songket are traditional fabric commonly found in Central Market. For greater satisfaction choose the hand made ones. You may be interested to buy ready made baju kurung or baju kebaya (the traditional Malay blouse). For peace of mind, buy from the bigger stores. Some Thai handicrafts are also sold here, alongside handmade Malaysian wooden souvenirs.
If your are looking for an authentic produce market to get the best variety of fruits at the lowest prices, head to Chow Kit Wet Market. There are also many eateries around.
Since 2000, the Ministry of Tourism of Malaysia has kick-started the mega sale event for all shopping in Malaysia. The mega sale event is held thrice in a year—in March, May and December—where all shopping malls are encouraged to participate to boost Kuala Lumpur as a leading shopping destination.


== Eat ==
Individual listings can be found in Kuala Lumpur's district articles
Malaysian food is amazing, making Kuala Lumpur an excellent place to eat as it hosts cuisine from all around the country and beyond. Most restaurants close by 10PM, but in the city centre, there are always a few 24-hr kedai mamak (curry houses) or fast food places if you get stuck.
Delicious food can be very cheap too: just head to the ubiquitous roadside stalls or kedai kopi (literally coffee shop, but these are all about the food). These shops operate like a food court with many stalls selling a variety of food. Some coffee shops have tables and chairs by the roadside. Chinatown (especially Jalan Sultan, Jalan Hang Lekir and Jalan Petaling) in the city centre and Jalan Alor in the Golden Triangle have some of the greatest concentrations of coffee shops and stalls. They mostly open only at night. Pudu is also a famous area among locals for its street food stalls, though tourists typically do not go there.
One famous collection of streetside Mamak stalls is at Jalan Doraisamy near the Heritage Row in Chow Kit. Along with full-blown curries, these places also serve roti canai (generally RM1 each), a filling snack that is almost half chapati, half pancake but certainly wholly delicious. It is served with dhal and curry sauce.
Shopping malls' food courts provide cheap Malaysian food in more comfortable and hygienic conditions, although the prices will be a little higher. However, most Malaysians consider the quality of dishes at a food court to be inferior to those at roadside stalls.
The Golden Triangle, Bangsar and Midvalley, Heritage Row and some areas in Damansara and Hartamas are the usual places for people looking to dine out with a bit of flair.
Ethnic generalizations: Malay food can be found in the Jalan Masjid India and Kampung Baru district. Chinatown is the best place for Chinese (especially Cantonese) food, although all kinds of Chinese cuisine, from the simplest to the most sophisticated, can be found all over Kuala Lumpur. Head to Lebuh Ampang in the city centre and Brickfields for Indian food. Bangsar has many high-end restaurants offering Western food. If you are dying for Korean food, head to Ampang Jaya. A lot of Arab and Middle Eastern restaurants have mushroomed in Bukit Bintang, Cyberjaya and Damai.


== Drink ==
Individual listings can be found in Kuala Lumpur's district articles
Kuala Lumpur has quite a vibrant night-life and the Golden Triangle is the epicentre of most of the partying which goes on in the city. Jalan P. Ramlee, just south of KLCC, is Kuala Lumpur's central clubbing area, while the action also spills onto Jalan Sultan Ismail, Jalan Ampang, Jalan Pinang and Jalan Perak. Nearby Bukit Bintang also throbs with action, and its neon-lit nightclubs, many of them with hostesses, certainly have a more Asian feel to them.
Heritage Row, in the Chow Kit district, is fast catching up as a popular nightspot. It occupies a row of refurbished colonial-era shop houses and is now home to one of Kuala Lumpur's swankiest clubs and trendy bars; strictly for well heeled visitors and locals. Bangsar has long been one of the busiest places in Kuala Lumpur after the sun goes down. The action is around Jalan Telawi and its side streets, and is definitely the place to go for drinks and deafening music.
Sri Hartamas and Mont Kiara in the Damansara and Hartamas district have popular pubs and some clubs as well as nice coffee places. You may be able to find live performances in some of the outlets.
After a tiring night out, Malaysians like to head to Mamak stalls - street side stalls or shops operated by Indian Muslims - which offer a range of non-alcoholic beverages like teh tarik (frothed tea) and light food. In fact, these stalls have also become night hangouts in their own right, and many outlets have installed wide-screen projectors and TV where they screen football matches. Most outlets are open 24 hours. They are found all over the city and are a wonderful part of the Malaysian night scene.
Another trend that has hit Malaysia is the kopitiam fad, a more upmarket version of the traditional Chinese coffee shop. These mostly open during the day and offer some of the best tea and coffee and light meals and snacks like nasi lemak (coconut flavoured rice with fried anchovies and peanut) and the ever popular toast with kaya (coconut curd, used as a spread). If you prefer Western style coffee, there are many coffee outlets in Kuala Lumpur: most of them are part of international and local chains like Starbucks, Coffee Bean and Tea Leaf and San Francisco Coffee. Most of them can be found in shopping malls.
Besides this usual league of highly commercialised venues for the majority of flat minds, check out fono, Cry Room, JAO TIM, Triptyk.my, Couch Potato, and their connected pears for a sense of subculture like known from Europe. All are on IG as well, and sometimes have free or low-cost entrance. Besides that there are several Jazz places around the city (like UP KL), but their prices often cater for a more wealthy set of customers — find them on Google Maps.


== Sleep ==
Individual listings can be found in Kuala Lumpur's district articles


=== Budget ===
Budget accommodation can be found everywhere; dormitory beds can cost as little as RM25 per night. Find the cheap ones online if cost is an issue. Increasingly, newer & better ones are opening in the Jalan Tuanku Abdul Rahman/Chow Kit, Jalan Ipoh areas, the so-called growth areas in the city centre. If you are willing to take the 10-minute LRT to the main attractions, then hotels can be found for as little as RM49 per night (sometimes below) with free Wi-Fi. Another area with low-cost accommodation is in Brickfields close to the KL Sentral monorail station.


=== Mid-range and splurge ===
Mid-range hotels are comparatively poor value in Kuala Lumpur, and it is worth it to spend a little extra (or look a little harder) for a true luxury hotel on the cheap. Kuala Lumpur is similar in price to Bangkok for 5-star luxury hotels, with rooms available for as little as RM400 or even less. Prices vary seasonally.


== Stay safe ==
Crime is not rampant in Kuala Lumpur. The perception of crime is high, but the Malaysian police have managed to reduce crime significantly in and around urban Kuala Lumpur. Reports of violent crime against foreigners are uncommon but instances of pickpocketing and bag snatching have risen.
Kuala Lumpur is generally very safe for travellers (it is locals who are often the targets of crime), but be wary of over-friendly locals trying to con you. Police presence, particularly around tourist areas and at night has increased.
Walking in the city is usually fine but, as anywhere, caution must be exercised, especially if alone. Indeed, your greatest danger whilst walking will be sidewalks that end abruptly in massive holes, or impassable 6-lane roads that you must cross. Snatch thieves can be rather ruthless: women have been knocked unconscious by bag snatchers on motorbikes. If this happens to you, let go of the bag rather than be dragged several metres and risk injury. Hold your bag away from the street side and try not to appear flashy if possible. Be wary in alleyways or parking grounds that appear dark and deserted, as petty thieves with knives or firearms might mug you.
During the rains, pavements and streets become small rivers and crossing a street can be an adventure. Pavements become as slippery as ice so wear proper footwear.
Be careful of a poker scam that involves friendly locals. They normally target lone tourists in popular tourist places. It starts with a friendly approach and an invitation to their home to chat and learn about your country. Then comes poker, accumulated losses and the loss of your cash and jewellery. Such scams can also happen through couchsurfing.
The bogus cop scam is usually run by Middle-Easterners. You will be stopped by "plain-clothed police officers" on the pretext of checking your travel documents. You will be brought to a secluded area in the process and made to hand over your wallet. Should you be stopped, you have the right to insist that you be taken to the nearest police station before saying/showing anything.
Malaysian law requires that visitors carry their passport at all times, and both police and "RELA" (civil volunteers) carry out spot checks for illegal immigrants.


== Stay healthy ==

Tap water in Kuala Lumpur is heavily chlorinated and thus safe, but unfortunately the pipes that carry it may not be.  Most locals boil or filter it before use; alternatively, bottled water is cheap and ubiquitous.
There is no malaria in the city, but dengue fever can be a problem at times, so take precautions against mosquitoes.
Between May and October, Kuala Lumpur is occasionally affected by dense haze caused by forest fires in Sumatra and Borneo. This air pollution poses significant health risks to everyone, especially vulnerable groups such as children, the elderly, and those with respiratory or heart conditions.  However, the haze comes and goes, and varies greatly from year to year.


== Respect ==
Kuala Lumpur is ostensibly a liberal city by Malaysian standards and wearing revealing clothes will rarely cause major problems. However, avoiding overly revealing clothes goes a long way towards blending in.
Many mosques and temples require covering up, and you will get more respect from officialdom if you dress up a little. Many places of worship including all mosques will require you to take your shoes off before entering.
When eating with hands rather than cutlery, do not touch the food with your left hand, as it is reserved for handling dirty things.
If you can speak just a few words of the four main local  languages, namely Malay, Chinese (especially Cantonese), Tamil and English, it will ingratiate you a lot with the locals.
While alcohol consumption is legal for non-Muslims, public drunkenness is not tolerated.


== Connect ==
Internet cafés are quite plentiful in Kuala Lumpur and you can find them in most shopping centres. If you have your own laptop, Maxis' WLAN service is the best deal around, a prepaid RM15 card gets you unlimited use for 2 weeks. Many hotels provide free internet access and connections. Free Wi-Fi is also available in many cafes, restaurants and shopping centres. A few examples:

Malaysia Tourism Centre (MTC), 109 Jalan Ampang (between KLCC and Dang Wangi). Formerly MATIC, this tourist information centre has a wealth of information on Malaysia, occasional cultural shows, surly staff and semi-crippled but free PCs for browsing the Net.
Starbucks, Coffeebean, Burger King and McDonalds - offer free Wi-Fi
Air Asia Counter in KL Sentral Several computers with internet access are available for you to check out the Air Asia website (and maybe glance at your e-mail or the news quickly)


== Cope ==
Locals are very friendly to the tourists, and many in Kuala Lumpur can speak decent English. Communication with the locals is almost as easy as it is in Singapore and significantly better than in Bangkok or many other Asian cities. Greet people with a warm smile and they will be happy to show you around. Be friendly: if you are lost, just ask anyone smartly dressed on the street.
Watch out when sending postal packages (gifts, clothes, ...) as the employees from the Malaysian post frequently overcharge tourists. Make sure to get a printed receipt with the tracking number, and verify the price at the receipt.


=== Embassies and High Commissions ===
The Malaysian Ministry of Foreign Affairs maintains an up to date list of foreign missions within Malaysia, many present in Kuala Lumpur. For some countries, where a foreign mission is not present within Malaysia, it lists a nearby mission within other countries.


== Go next ==


=== Day or weekend trips ===
Genting Highlands - 40 min by road on the East Coast Highway, has cooler weather, theme parks for the kids and a casino for the adults. Easily accessible by buses from KL Sentral.
Fraser's Hill - a bit further than Genting. Beautiful nature and fresh climate. Great for hikes and cycling tours.
Ipoh - Around 90 minutes by train, Ipoh is well known for its food and colonial buildings. Relax in the local hot springs, hunt down the famous Rafflesia flower, shop in the local night markets or even try out white water rafting. Venture out from the main city area to one of several caves and cave temples.
Kuala Selangor - 1 hr north-west of Kuala Lumpur, is notable for its fireflies that flash in unison, and seafood restaurants.
Klang - Royal capital of Selangor state with a few interesting old buildings and restaurants.
Malacca - if you have more days to spend in Malaysia, a must-visit is the historical town of Malacca, a UNESCO World Heritage site. Steeped with history of its Dutch, Portuguese and British colonial period, you will find this town to be rich in culture and history.
Pulau Ketam (Crab Island) - at the mouth of the River Klang and its Chinese fishing villages make for an interesting day trip. Take the train to Port Klang (RM5, 1hr 30min) then the boat to the island (RM7, 45 min).
Putrajaya - Malaysia's megalomanic new federal administrative centre is 30 km to the south (20 min by KLIA Transit train).


=== Further afield ===
Cameron Highlands - About 200 km north of Kuala Lumpur, Cameron Highlands offers cooler weather and lovely highland landscapes. You will be able to visit tea plantations, vegetable farms, strawberry farms and nurseries, as well as soak in the colonial history of this plateau. Colonial cottages and bungalows as well as modern hotels, resorts and luxurious hilltop retreats can be found here. Bird-watching, jungle trekking and other outdoor activities are also available.
Langkawi - Officially known as Langkawi, the Jewel of Kedah. About an hour from KL by plane, Langkawi is a popular tourist resort destination that has tax-free status and plenty of sun, sand & surf. Scuba diving, snorkelling, Kayaking and jungle trekking are just some of the many activities to do in Langkawi.
Penang - Penang Island is also a must-visit destination well known as the 'food paradise' of Malaysia. The state capital, Georgetown, is protected as UNESCO World Heritage Site with a rich Chinese culture, century-old clan houses, majestic temples and historical colonial monuments. Penang is a very popular destination for Malaysians and going there during the local holidays could be hectic.
Sumatra - One of the many islands of Indonesia, the primary attraction of Sumatra is nature. The island is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site and named The Tropical Rainforest Heritage of Sumatra. Filled with jungles, volcanoes and lakes there is lots to see and do for the adventurous traveller. Reach Sumatra by boat from Port Klang, near KL, or by plane.
Taman Negara - The largest National Park on Peninsular Malaysia with plenty of activities for those wanting to connect with nature include bird watching, cave exploring, Jungle trekking and night safaris. For something to eat try out one of the floating restaurants and relax while time goes by after a long day in the park.