Melbourne (Naarm in the Woiworrung language) is Australia's cultural capital and second biggest city, with Victorian-era architecture, extensive shopping, museums, galleries, theatres, and large parks and gardens. Many of its 5.2 million residents are both multicultural and sports-mad. The capital of the south-eastern state of Victoria, and located at the head of Port Phillip Bay, Melbourne is a magnet for migrants from all over the world, and consistently ranks as one of the world's most livable cities.
Visitors come to attend major sporting events, and to use it as a base for exploring nearby places such as Grampians National Park, the Great Ocean Road, and Phillip Island and its penguin parade. Many UK visitors come for tours of filming locations of the soap opera Neighbours.
By the way: somebody living in Melbourne is a Melburnian, and they pronounce the city's name as "MEL-b'n".


== Districts ==


=== Central Melbourne ===


=== Greater Melbourne ===


== Understand ==


=== History ===

The British settlement of Melbourne commenced in 1835 when settlers from Tasmania led by John Batman "purchased" land on Port Phillip Bay and the Yarra River from the local Aboriginal people. The streets of central Melbourne were carefully laid out in 1837, with some streets 30 metres wide. Initially dubbed Batmania after its founder, the settlement was soon renamed Melbourne after William Lamb, 2nd Viscount Melbourne, the British Prime Minister at that time. The first British lieutenant-governor, Charles La Trobe, arrived in 1839 – his Cottage still stands and can be visited in the Kings Domain.
1851 was a landmark for Melbourne — the colony of Victoria was separated from New South Wales and very soon after,  gold was discovered in Victoria, sparking a huge gold rush. The gold rush history can be seen at the Gold Treasury Museum, housed in the Treasury Building built in 1858. Gold was the catalyst for several decades of prosperity lasting through to the late 1880s and examples of the ornate Victorian-era structures built during this time still stand. Throughout the gold and building booms, Melbourne managed to retain its many spacious parks and gardens that remain to this day. In 1888, the boom collapsed and Victoria suffered through the depression of the 1890s.
In 1901, the British colonies of Australia federated and Melbourne became the temporary capital of Australia, with the Federal Parliament meeting in the Parliament House of Victoria until 1927 when the new Federal capital of Canberra was founded. After World War II, Melbourne grew rapidly, with its mainly Anglo-Celtic population boosted by immigration from Europe, particularly from Greece and Italy. Today Melbourne has the biggest Greek population (over 800,000) of any city outside Greece and the biggest Italian population (over 230,000) of any city outside Italy. The significant pre-war Jewish population was also boosted after the war. From the mid-1970s, many immigrants came from Southeast Asia, particularly Vietnam and Cambodia. Melbourne has had a Chinese population since the gold rush of the 1850s; Melbourne's former Chinese name was "New Gold Mountain" (新金山), in reference to the "Old Gold Mountain" of San Francisco. Chinatown has existed from that time but the population of Chinese and other East Asians has also been boosted by immigration.
New highrise buildings replaced many of Melbourne's interesting old structures in the construction boom of the 1970s and 80s. Melbournians belatedly recognised the loss of their architectural heritage and steps were taken to protect what was left. Construction of the huge Crown Casino (briefly the largest casino in the world) in the 1990s introduced glitz and gambling to the city centre. Melbourne's development continues in the 2000s with the opening of the Melbourne Museum, Federation Square and the Docklands precinct.


=== Culture ===

Melbourne is the cultural capital of Australia, with its many art galleries, film festivals, orchestras, choral and opera productions, vibrant live music scene, and a strong food, wine and coffee culture. People in Melbourne tend to dress up more than the northern states - partly due to the colder climate.  Many bars and clubs have strict dress regulations, such as requiring collars and dress shoes for men.
Particular cultural events to note include the Melbourne International Film Festival in August, the International Art Festival in October, and the Melbourne Comedy Festival in April. There are also many concerts and exhibitions throughout the year. In addition to the Melbourne Museum, there are special museums dedicated to subjects such as science, immigration, Chinese history, Jewish history, sport, racing, film and moving image, railways, police, fire brigades and banking.
Melbourne also has a strong subcultural scene appealing especially to young people, particularly in the suburbs of Carlton, Fitzroy, Collingwood and Abbotsford, where subcultural bars, cafes and art galleries are common. Check out the Abbotsford Convent and Brunswick Street Fitzroy.


=== LGBT+ ===
Melbourne is welcoming of LGBT+ people, who generally live in the city with few difficulties.
While often referred to as Australia's cultural capital, Melbourne also draws much more influence from Europe in its architecture, fashion and food – and for the gay traveller it may feel like a more chilled out and refined experience after the glitz of Sydney. Melbourne is a city of less ostentatious delights than its northern cousin, regularly voted the world's most livable city – so set some time aside to relax and explore.
The gay scene in Melbourne is basically divided between the north side and south side of the city. In the north side the best options are Sircuit Bar (mixed on Tuesday and Sunday) or The Laird for guys of the bear variety.
Melbourne's main annual community events are the Midsumma Festival and the Melbourne Queer Film Festival.


=== Sport ===
Melbournians are sports enthusiasts and particularly passionate about Australian rules football, a sport invented in Melbourne. In fact the Australian Football League (AFL) is not so much a sport as a religion in Melbourne, with 9 of the 10 Victorian teams being based in Melbourne. As a guide, the entire national competition only has 18 teams, meaning half the league is based in Melbourne alone. The AFL culminates in the AFL Grand Final in the spring, which is played every year at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Horse racing is another passion, and the state has a public holiday on the first Tuesday of November for the racing of the Melbourne Cup, one of the world's famous horse races. Cricket is the big summer sport and the Melbourne Cricket Ground (the 'MCG' or 'The G') is one of the world's leading grounds. On Boxing Day each year, the MCG hosts the boxing day test match. This usually sees the Australian Cricket team going up against another big cricketing nation. The MCG is also home to the National Sports Museum (NSM) (including the Racing Museum), Australia's only truly dedicated multi-sports museum.
Each January,  Melbourne hosts tennis' Australian Open, one of the world's four Grand Slam championships. In March, Melbourne hosts one of the first races of the Formula One season, the Australian Grand Prix. The race is held in Albert Park in South Melbourne. Two professional Association Football teams are based in Melbourne, Melbourne Victory and Melbourne City FC; the two teams now share the new Melbourne Rectangular Stadium, commercially known as AAMI Park, and also play select matches at Marvel Stadium. The city also boasts one professional team in each rugby code, with both also playing at AAMI Park. The Melbourne Storm play rugby league in the National Rugby League, with teams throughout Australia plus one in New Zealand. The Melbourne Rebels play rugby union in Super Rugby, which features three other Australian sides, four in South Africa, five in New Zealand, and one each in Argentina and Japan. Melbourne is the unquestioned sporting capital of Australia with the largest arenas and two of the major sporting administrations basing their operation in Melbourne: Cricket Australia is a stone's throw from the MCG, and AFL games are played at the MCG and at Marvel Stadium.


=== Climate ===

The city's climate is notorious for its changeability, often referred to as "four seasons in a day". Its climate can be described generally as temperate, with warm summers and cool winters. During the summer of December to February, daytime temperatures average around 26 °C (79 °F), with mildly comfortable nights averaging around 15 °C (59 °F), and humidity is rarely an issue. Despite this, it's not out of the ordinary for the city to swelter through heatwaves with temperatures that can exceed 35 °C (95 °F) and top out around 40 °C (104 °F); such sweltering days come with nighttime lows that don't go below 20 °C (68 °F). With approximately 600 mm of rainfall annually, Melbourne gets only half as much rain as Sydney. October is typically the wettest month. Days are long, with sunrise at 6AM and sunset at 8:45PM.
Winter (June–August) is usually cool with a mix of clear, sunny weather and cold & damp conditions. Temperatures in winter can range from chilly overnight lows as low as 0 °C (32 °F) to daytime highs as high as 19 °C (66 °F) at times. Light snow has been recorded in and around Melbourne during the winter months only a couple of times over the last century, although the hills east of the city usually see a snow shower or two every winter. Daylight runs from 7:30AM to 5:15PM. You should consider visiting Melbourne in the autumn and spring — temperatures during these periods are usually very pleasant, without being unbearably warm with daytime highs usually in the 20 °C (68 °F)s.
With such unpredictable weather, it can be difficult deciding what to wear when planning a day out in Melbourne. A common tip is to wear layers of clothing and accessories that can be removed or worn as the day goes on.


=== Visitor information ===
Visit Melbourne website


== Get in ==


=== By plane ===
The city is primarily serviced by Melbourne Airport at Tullamarine which has international flights and a comprehensive domestic schedule. Avalon Airport is more distant, partway between Melbourne and Geelong, and hosts only a couple of domestic routes (Jetstar to Sydney & Gold Coast). Finally, five regional destinations can be reached on light aircraft from Essendon Airport (MEB  IATA): King Island and Flinders Island in Tasmania, and Dubbo, Orange and Wollongong in NSW.
For general aviation, the aforementioned Essendon Airport as well as Moorabbin Airport (MBW  IATA) in the southeastern suburbs of the urban area, are the airports of choice.


==== Melbourne Airport ====

Main article: Melbourne Airport
Melbourne Airport, also known as Tullamarine Airport, (MEL IATA) is 22 km north-west of the City Centre in the Hume region. There are regular flights from all major Australian and New Zealand cities. There are direct flights from many Asian hubs, with connections from Europe, and direct flights from North America, South America and Europe.
The SkyBus service runs regularly to the City, St Kilda, Mornington Peninsula and Western suburbs, costing about $24 one way if you book online, or $40 return. For travellers on a budget, Melbourne Airport can also be accessed by public bus from Broadmeadows station. There is no train link to the airport, but multiple proposals have been put forward for decades. A taxi into the Melbourne CBD will cost around $75-100. There are also Uber ranks outside Terminal 4 and Terminal 2 which will cost between $50-70.
As of 2025, there is a free bus between the airport and the city from the inner pickup lane at arrivals to the outlet shops DFO Essendon and DFO South Wharf. South Wharf is just across the river from the CBD. The bus runs every half hour in either direction from 10:00-15:45 daily except Tuesdays & Wednesdays. Obviously the bus is intended to facilitate your shopping spree, but there is no obligation to shop. From DFO Essendon, you can take the 903 bus from the shopping centre to Essendon train station. And from DFO South Wharf you are pretty much in the city!


==== Avalon Airport ====
Avalon Airport (AVV IATA) is a mainly domestic airport 55 km south-west of Melbourne in Lara, near Geelong. Although much further than Melbourne Airport, fares from Avalon are sometimes considerably cheaper. The terminals are generally very simple, with just an ATM, car hire desks and baggage carousels. Other facilities include a cafe, bar and a video arcade room. There are several flights in and out of Avalon each day, with flights to Sydney and the Gold Coast operated by Jetstar (which also flies to Melbourne Airport).
SkyBus operates a coach shuttle to Southern Cross Station in Melbourne's City Centre via the outer western suburb of Werribee, meeting every flight arrival and departure. The transfer costs $22 one-way for an adult, and $10 for a child (4–14 years). Other than the coach, there is no public transport; Lara Station is 8 km from the terminal, a taxi to this station costs about $20. A taxi to the city from this airport could cost upwards of $100.
The driving time from Avalon Airport to Melbourne's City Centre is about 45 minutes in good traffic conditions. Avalon Airport is also convenient for visiting Geelong and the Great Ocean Road.


=== By train ===

Southern Cross Station is Melbourne's regional rail hub for interstate and intrastate travel. It's on the western side of the City Centre, with good public transport connections to the rest of the city. Train travel in Victoria is very cheap, with the maximum fare for any journey capped at the price of a daily Myki fare ($11.00 on weekdays, $7.60 on weekends and public holidays, as of Mar 2025).

 V/Line. The regional rail operator for Victoria, with services across the state from Geelong, Bendigo, Ballarat, Bairnsdale, Warrnambool, Swan Hill and other places. V/Line also operates some services interstate, including the train to Albury, and combined train/coach services to Adelaide and Canberra. (updated May 2023)
 NSW Trainlink. This rail service between Sydney and Melbourne leaves twice daily in the morning and evening. The journey takes just under 11 hours, and you must book in advance. There is one sleeper carriage on the overnight train with nine two-bed private rooms. This must be booked by phone as it cannot be booked online, and it sells out months in advance. A standard seat costs around $90 while a bed costs $235 with a light breakfast included. This, Australia's only remaining standard sleeper train service, is set to be axed when a new generation of trains is brought in to replace the ageing XPT fleet in 2027. (updated Oct 2024)
 The Overland. This rail service between Adelaide and Melbourne takes just under 11 hours. Departures leave twice weekly in each direction. 


=== By car ===
From Sydney, the quickest route to Melbourne is the Hume Highway, which takes 10 hours of driving without any stops. This road is almost all dual-carriageway (freeway). The Princes Highway (National Route 1) goes along the coast and is less crowded and more scenic, but this route takes much longer to reach Melbourne. See Sydney to Melbourne by car for more information.
Adelaide is slightly closer than Sydney and can be reached in 9 hours. The coastal route (again, The Princes Highway) is more scenic but slower. See article Overland travel between Melbourne and Adelaide.
A direct journey from Brisbane takes 21 hours of driving and takes you further inland along the Newell Highway. This makes for an alternative to the standard Brisbane-Sydney-Melbourne coastal route.


=== By bus ===
Bus services to Melbourne from out of state are provided by Firefly Express (from Adelaide and Sydney only, fares starting at $65) and Greyhound. They arrive and depart from Southern Cross coach terminal, just north of the train station on Spencer St. 
Bus services within Victoria are operated by V/Line and operate from most major and many minor Victorian towns.


=== By boat ===

Melbourne is served by several international cruise ships throughout the year, particularly in the summer cruise season.
The Spirit of Tasmania used to depart and arrive at Melbourne from Devonport in northern Tasmania, but in 2022, the Spirit of Tasmania terminal was relocated to Geelong.
All passenger ships serving Melbourne arrive at and depart from Station Pier in Port Melbourne, about 5 km from the city centre. Tram route 109 (towards Box Hill) departs frequently from the old railway station across the road from the Pier, travelling into the heart of Melbourne along Collins St.


== Get around ==

Melbourne's city centre is laid out in an orderly grid system, similar to Manhattan, meaning that navigating the city centre is easy. Melbourne has a comprehensive public transportation system consisting of trams, trains, and buses. Trams criss-cross the city, trains extend to the outer suburbs, and buses cover the remaining destinations.


=== By public transport ===
Public Transport Victoria (PTV) coordinates all train, tram and bus services within the state. The PTV website and app provides a journey planner, timetables, maps and disruption information. Apple Maps and Google Maps also provide a journey planner and disruption information. Services generally operate between 5AM and midnight Monday–Saturday and after 8AM Sunday. A Night Network operates after midnight Friday–Saturday. Most of the train and bus network is wheelchair and pram accessible. Trams are only accessible via a low floor tram at accessible stops, mostly in the city centre and St Kilda.


==== Fares ====

A myki card can be purchased and reloaded at staffed railway stations, machines at railway stations and major tram stops, the airport, retail stores such as 7-Eleven, and online. An adult card costs $6 and a concession/child card costs $3, neither of which comes with preloaded credit. The card can be refunded at the PTV Hub at Southern Cross station. A Mobile myki card is available via Google Pay on an Android smartphone. Fare payments cannot be made using a contactless credit or debit card but an upgrade to do so is underway as of 2025. 
Your fare is deducted from your card as you touch on and touch off each mode of transport. Trains have fare gates or distinctive green validators to touch before you board and after you alight. Trams and buses have validators to touch as you board and alight. Touching off on a tram is optional and not recommended in the city centre.
The fare you pay is determined by where you travel (including the zones you travel through), your fare type (for example a 2-hour or daily fare), whether you’re eligible for a concession fare or free travel, and any other discounts.

The system calculates a 2-hour fare the first time you touch on. The system calculates a daily fare if you touch on again more than 2 hours after your first touch on. This daily fare is valid on all public transport until 3AM the next day. In other words, you'll never pay more than the daily fare no matter how much you travel around the city.
Zone 1+2 covers the entire city whilst Zone 2 covers the outer suburbs only. There is also a Free Tram Zone within the city centre. You do not need to touch on if remaining within the Free Tram Zone, but you do need to touch on if you wish to travel beyond the Free Tram Zone. Touching on inside the Free Tram Zone will result in you being charged a Zone 1+2 fare.
There are a few little-known public transport discounts. The Early Bird discount is useful for train commuters: if you touch on and touch off before 7AM, you will not be charged (this does not apply to trams or buses, however). More useful is the evening discount: if you touch on for the first time after 6PM, you can travel as much as you like until 3AM for the price of a 2-hour fare.
Laws surrounding public transport are strict. Ticket inspectors patrol the network, and issue fines of up to $413 on the spot for offences such as fare evasion, putting feet on seats, swearing, drinking alcohol, blocking doors, and being in unauthorised areas. It should be noted that infringement notices are not given out by ticket inspectors, although they do have the power to arrest you until police arrive. Rather, they take your details and report you to the Victorian Department of Transport, who will subsequently send an infringement notice or a formal warning to your address. Fines will not be pursued if your address is outside Australia.


==== Trains ====

The train network is operated by Metro Trains Melbourne (MTM). A partly-underground "City Loop" forms the basis of the network, with most lines branching off to the suburbs like the spokes of a wheel. The lines are named after the terminating station at the end of the line, and all that run through the City Loop originate from Flinders Street station, the city's famous suburban railway hub. Melbourne's rail network can be categorised into six main lines:

Metro Tunnel Group (light blue) – includes Sunbury, Pakenham and Cranbourne Lines, which instead of running through the City Loop, through-run via the Metro Tunnel with pedestrian links to both Flinders St (at Town Hall) and Melbourne Central (at State Library).
Burnley Group (dark blue) – includes Glen Waverley, Belgrave and Lilydale Lines, as well as the Alamein Line during peak hours.
Caulfield Loop (green) – previously used by Pakenham/Cranbourne, but now used by the Frankston Line.
Clifton Hill Group (red) – includes the Hurstbridge and Mernda Lines, which both branch off each other at Clifton Hill Interchange.
North Melbourne Loop (yellow) – includes the Craigieburn and Upfield Lines.
Weribee/Williamstown–Sandringham (pink) – two lines that through-run at Flinders St.
Trains to the suburbs generally operate at 10-20 minute frequencies, with higher frequencies (but more overcrowding) in peak times. Be aware that express trains skip some of the smaller suburban stations; check information screens carefully to be sure.
Some suburbs in the west are not served by MTM, but rather the state's regional operator, V/Line. In the case of suburbs along the Wyndham Vale Line, 20-minute services on the Geelong Line, and 30-minute services on the Ballarat Line for the Melton Line. V/Line services always start and end at Southern Cross.


==== Trams ====
See also: Trams in Melbourne.
Trams are a prominent feature in Melbourne's urban landscape and a tourist attraction in themselves. The city has the largest network in the world. The network is operated by Yarra Trams with green branding. Most tram lines cross the city in each direction, and branch out from the city centre like spokes. In the city, they often become crowded, and you are unlikely to get a seat. The network is operated by a mix of newer, low-floor trams with stop announcements and older models with step-entry. Stops in the inner city generally have platforms, although most stops require hailing the tram from the side of the road; take care at these stops and look for cars with distracted drivers which may illegally speed past. Most tram stops on Swanston Street (in city centre) are located on bike lanes. Please be careful not to walk onto the bike lane until the trams stops in front of you.
The free City Circle Tram (Route 35) runs clockwise around the CBD perimeter, operated by green and gold-coloured trams. These trams are geared to visitors and provide access and audio commentary regarding sites of interest to the tourist. More information is provided in the City Centre guide.
Yarra Trams' official iOS and Android app, tramTRACKER, is very useful for tracking real-time tram arrivals and following the tram's progress on board. Most tram routes will have 8-12 minute service during the day, with higher frequencies in the peak, but lower frequencies of 20–30 minutes in the evenings.


==== Buses ====
Buses serve as connections to places without rail transport, often connecting to major shopping centres and train stations. Denoted by orange branding and stops, most buses are low-floor and air-conditioned. A few major trunk routes (including ones such as the 200/207 in the inner north, the 900 to Chadstone, 907 to Doncaster, etc.) operate at 10-15 minute frequencies, although for most buses, it is necessary to use the journey planner or check timetables, as service tends to be far less frequent than trains and trams.


=== By taxi ===

Melbourne taxis are ubiquitous in the centre but less often spotted in the suburbs. Taxis are traditionally yellow in colour, although silver and white colours also exist. Fares are standardized so that the meter starts ticking with the Day Rate (T1) (9AM-5AM) at $4.20 and clocking up $1.622/km, the Overnight Rate (T2) (5AM-9AM) at $5.20 and clocking up $1.804/km and the Peak Rate (T3) (10AM-4AM Friday and Saturday) at $6.20 clocking up $1.986/km, meaning that short hops can go for under $10, but longer hauls get expensive pretty fast. A $2 fee applies for telephone booking a taxi and a $4.78 fee for catching a taxi from the airport. Sitting in traffic is $0.568/min at T1, $0.631/min at T2 and $0.695/min at T3. Between 10PM and 5AM, taxi fares can be prepaid: you pay an estimated sum to the driver in advance and the fare is corrected on arrival. There are no negotiated fares for taxis in Melbourne. The Taxi Services Commission provides a full fare list and useful fare estimator on their website.
The following rideshare companies operate in Melbourne:

Uber
Didi
HOP


=== By car ===

Driving in Melbourne's city centre is generally inadvisable. Congestion tends to be bad, street parking difficult to find, and parking in multi-storey carparks tends to be rather expensive. In addition, you will have to learn how to execute a hook turn (described below) due to the large number of trams in the city. That being said, driving is generally the best way of getting around Melbourne's suburbs, as the public transport network tends to be less reliable, less frequent and more thinly spread out than in the city centre, particularly in the outer suburbs. If travelling from the outer suburbs to the city, it's generally best to park your car at the nearest railway station and catch a train in. In the centre, street parking can cost more than $3.50 an hour. Melbourne is the only city in Australia where motorcycles and scooters may be parked on footpaths, as long as they don't obstruct the footpath and if there are no signs indicating otherwise.
The major car rental chains are well-represented. Independent car rental companies are also plentiful and can offer good value. Many of the rental companies are located close to Melbourne's Southbank, so if you are staying close to or on the outskirts of the CBD, it should be relatively easy to find both the well represented and independent car rental companies.
In the city centre, a number of intersections require you to perform the infamous hook turn (see photograph) to turn right due to tram tracks running down the centre of the road. Follow the signs: move into the left lane and move as far forward as possible, wait and when the traffic signal for the street you are turning into turns green, make the turn.
There are two major tollways in Melbourne, both of which have no manual tollgates and require day passes to be purchased in advance or up to three days after the trip online or over the phone. Registration number and car details should be provided; failure to buy a pass can result in expensive fines, and car rental companies will often stack their own administration charges on top of these. Be aware that major rental companies will often offer a toll option, which is usually cheaper than purchasing your own passes. Tollways are represented by blue and yellow road signage rather than the usual green and white signs. Tollways are clearly signposted and easily avoided if so desired.
CityLink is the T-shaped tollway through the city core, connecting the West Gate Freeway in the west, Monash Freeway in the south-east and Tullamarine Freeway in the north. These freeways are useful for travelling to Geelong and the Great Ocean Road, Phillip Island and Melbourne Airport respectively. A 24-hour pass costs $22.55 for cars, less for motorcycles and more for larger vehicles (2024).
EastLink is a north–south tollway through the eastern suburbs and is useful for reaching Frankston. A one-trip pass costs $7.68 for cars (not including fees), less for motorcycles and more for larger vehicles (2024). If you are likely to be using both tollroads, it may be worth purchasing a Melbourne Pass for $5.50 in addition to the regular toll costs depending on the length of the trip. Tags from other Australian cities work on CityLink and the EastLink tollway, but passes do not. At the very end of Eastlink, you'll arrive at an interchange with the Mornington Peninsula Freeway, which continues south to Mornington Peninsula. Eastlink continues south as the Frankston Freeway.


=== By bike ===
The inner suburbs of Melbourne have a good network of bike paths, plus a generally flat terrain, making pedal-power a great way to take in the city. Most bicycle paths are "shared footways" under the law, although the majority of users in most places are cyclists. This means cyclists should expect to share the path with pedestrians, dog-walkers, rollerbladers, joggers, prams and tricycles. Some trails contain on-road sections (in marked bike lanes). It is illegal to cycle on footpaths or pedestrian crossings, with the only exception when supervising cycling children or when the path is marked or signposted as allowing bikes. Helmets are required by law, as are lights when riding at night. Some bike lanes pass through tram stops - by law, you have to stop before the tram stop if passengers are boarding or alighting the tram. Detailed maps of the bike path network can be found [1]. Bicycles may be taken on trains, although there may not be space during peak hours. There is more room for bikes in the first and last carriages of trains. Only folding bikes are permitted on trams and buses.


==== Trails ====

 Yarra River Trail. Runs from the mouth of Melbourne's iconic Yarra River, through the city and onwards to Westerfolds Park in the outer suburbs. 
 Capital City Trail. Runs a circuit through Melbourne's inner suburbs, the Docklands precinct and the city. It's a good way to see a slice of day-to-day life. 
 Bay Trail. A pleasant trek around Port Phillip Bay, running from Port Melbourne, through the bustling beach-side precinct of St Kilda, past the famous bathing sheds of Brighton, all the way to Carrum. A punt operates under the West Gate Bridge on weekends and public holidays allowing a start at Altona Meadows along the Williamstown Trail, across the punt, and joining with the Bay Trail. You can't cycle on the West Gate Bridge. 
Maribyrnong River Trail. Starting at Southbank and finishing at Brimbank Park in Melbourne's west, the Maribyrnong river trail is a 28-km trail with easy to moderate riding on a good track. The trail takes you past the Polly Woodside ship and through the Docklands to Footscray Road. You'll then ride along the Maribyrnong River, passing Flemington Racecourse before crossing the river and over to Pipemakers Park. The remainder of the trail takes you through bushland and river reserves and underneath bridges before finishing up at Brimbank Park.


==== Rentals ====
 Rentabike, Vault 14 Princes Walk (near Federation Square, Federation Wharf, on the north side of the Yarra), ☏ +61 4 1733-9203. 10AM-5PM. $35 per day. 
 Freddys Bike Tours & Rentals, 32 Rebecca Walk (Batman Park on the Yarra River near to the Melbourne Aquarium), ☏ +61 431 61 0431, james@FreddysBikeTours.com.au. 9AM-7PM. Bicycle hire and bike rentals. Also offers a range of guided bicycle tours through various Melbourne precincts. $25 per day. 


=== By foot ===
Melbourne is an excellent city for walking and you should have no problems navigating the CBD grid. The walking time between each end of the city is less than 30 minutes. A brisk walk may even see you keeping up with the trams as they crawl through the city centre.


== See ==

Melbourne is a great city for arts, culture, dining, and events. Visitors frequently comment on the "good vibe" of the city, which can only be understood by experiencing it for yourself. There are a wide and varied assortment of attractions and sights, with something for every traveller. Most are in the CBD, in close reach of public transport. Melbourne is also a good base for experiencing the other attractions of Victoria, most of which can be reached on day trips.
Melbourne is Australia's best city for street art – refer to street art in Melbourne for more information.


=== Sights & museums ===
Melbourne's museums are generally well-regarded and worth a visit if you have time to spare. The Melbourne Museum and National Gallery of Victoria often have interesting temporary exhibitions.
Visit the State Library of Victoria, and its magnificent reading halls. The La Trobe Reading Room boasts a large domed study area with an art gallery featuring temporary exhibitions on its balconies.
Melbourne is an excellent place to master your photography skills. So many places to take a fantastic picture.
Visit one of Melbourne's many arcade and laneways, tucked away from the main city streets and avenues. One of these, the Cathedral Arcade, forms a narrow laneway, connecting Swanston Street to Flinders Lane in the central business district. It is a T-shaped arcade, however one of the laneways terminates inside the Nicholas building.
Visit the Eureka Skydeck for the best view of the city on level 88 of the Eureka Tower. Or indulge in fine dining by making a reservation at level 89 of the Eureka Tower.
Visit any or all of the three amazing zoos. At the Melbourne Zoo, visitors have the additional opportunities to interact, pet, and take close-up photography with a number of the animals, including kangaroos, meerkats, lemurs, and others.
Take a free tram ride around the city on the  free city circle line (Route 35).


== Do ==


=== Food & coffee ===
Visit the Queen Victoria Market – it stretches over two blocks and holds the title of the largest open-air market in the Southern Hemisphere.
Walk along Swanston Street to find a wide variety of eateries of all types, from Vietnamese to Italian.
Kick back at one of Melbourne's fantastic cafes in the CBD (Degraves St, The Causeway, and other laneways are fantastic for this), South Yarra (Chapel Street) or Fitzroy (Brunswick Street, Smith Street).
For upmarket restaurants, visit Flinders Lane and select from more expensive, sit-down food and drink.


=== Cinemas, music & entertainment ===
See interesting films at the Art Deco-styled Astor Theatre in St Kilda. There are several moonlight cinema programs in summer. The Melbourne International Film Festival is on in August.
Alternately, visit the Cinema Nova on Lygon Street (tram 1 or 8) on a Monday for $6 films before 4PM.
The Comic's Lounge has comedy shows and dinner.
Melbourne has an exceptionally vibrant live music scene. Many bars and pubs will have copies of the free magazines "Beat" and "Inpress" which provide local gig guides. Fitzroy, Collingwood and St. Kilda are generally your best bets for seeing some of the great local talent Melbourne has to offer. Venues where you generally can't go wrong include: "The Evelyn", Hotel Esplanade aka "The Espy", The Corner Hotel in Richmond & The Northcote Social Club.
Have a laugh at the Melbourne International Comedy Festival in March/April each year
Visit one of Melbourne's outdoor cinemas in the warmer months of the year (November to April)


=== Outdoor activity ===
Visit the beach (St Kilda, Brighton, or Frankston on the east side. Williamstown on the west side.)
Go hiking on scenic Mt Dandenong -Challenge yourself physically on the 1000 steps, or visit the cute towns of Sassafras or Olinda, or take a ride on the century-old Puffing Billy steam train
Chill out in the Botanical Gardens or one of the many parks (Albert Park, Carlton Gardens, Fitzroy Gardens)
See Melbourne's Yarra River by kayak


=== Sports ===

Australian rules football, known to locals as just "football" or "footy", is the most popular sport in Melbourne, and mostly played in the winter. Melbourne is the spiritual home of the Australian Football League (AFL), with 9 of the league's 18 teams based on Melbourne. The teams play their home games at the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG) or the Docklands Stadium (also known as Marvel Stadium).
Cricket is the most popular summer sport, and the MCG ground hosts internationals between Australia and a handful of touring sides every year. The Boxing Day Test between Australia and whichever foreign team is touring Australia at that time commences 26th December every year, and usually runs for about 4-5 days. In domestic cricket, the MCG houses the Victoria state team in the Sheffield Shield (first-class) and One-Day Cup (one-day), as well as the Melbourne Stars in the Big Bash League (T20). Melbourne's other Big Bash team, the Melbourne Renegades, plays at the Docklands Stadium. Some international matches are held at the Docklands Stadium instead of the MCG, but the experience is regarded as far inferior to watching a game at the MCG.
The Australian Open is one of the four grand slam tournaments of tennis and is held at Melbourne Park in January every year. Just before the Australian Open is the Kooyong Classic, which is held at Kooyong Lawn Tennis Club.
Australian Grand Prix or Formula One is held in March / April, around at Albert Park in the Inner south.
Get dressed up for "the race that stops the nation" on the first Tuesday of November The Melbourne Cup, or one of the other races in The Spring Racing Carnival


=== Festivals ===
The Melbourne International Film Festival is an iconic cultural event, contributed to the world's largest display of Australian filmmaking. Held over 3 weeks in August, it is the largest film festival in both Australia and the Southern Hemisphere, showcasing 400 Australian and international films.


== Learn ==
You can take language classes, join a cafe book group, learn to draw, sign up for historical or foodie walks, study for your Victorian Certificate of Education or take computer or business classes at the Council of Adult Education (CAE).  The CAE is also home to the City Library where you can sign up to borrow books or just read magazines in their cafe.


=== Universities ===
Melbourne is home to several universities, two of which belong to the prestigious "Group of Eight": the University of Melbourne and Monash University. There are opportunities for international students to enrol in these universities, either in their degree programmes or through exchange agreements with foreign universities, and these are opportunities for foreigners to live in Melbourne for an extended period of time. There are also dual sector institutions such as RMIT University and Victoria University that provide vocational training and short courses. 


== Work ==
The most popular industry for a working holiday is to work in hospitality jobs around the St. Kilda area. The wages in all other industries are usually much better than working in hospitality but require more specific skills.
Fruit picking is a possible source of income but in the greater Melbourne area not many jobs are offered. You will find better chances are in the dairy business but you should have some basic experience. Grape vine tending is another possibility in the nearby Yarra Valley.
Australia has the second highest minimum wage in the world (after Denmark). Note that casual workers (those who do not work regular or guaranteed hours) must be paid a loading of at least 20% over the award wage. The amount of loading varies by industry. Find out the wage your should be getting by using the Pay Calculator.
Most visitor visas prohibit the holder from any employment, but working holiday and student visas may allow foreigners to work, but these visas come with restrictions on hours of work allowed among other restrictions. Please make sure you have the right work before doing so as working without the right to work is a deportable offence. [2] If any workplace health and safety issues arise, you may contact WorkSafe Victoria, Victoria's health and safety regulator and manager of Victoria's workers compensation scheme. If you believe your employer is not complying with Australian workplace laws, you can also contact FairWork Ombudsman.
If you started employment, it is recommended that you apply for a Tax File Number (TFN), as it facilitates the Australia Tax Office (ATO), in managing your tax profile. Some jobs may require you to apply for one before starting work.


== Buy ==

Shopping hours in metro Melbourne are typically 7 days a week, 9AM–5:30PM weekdays and 9AM (maybe later)–5PM weekends. Most suburban shopping centres such as Chadstone have later closing hours on Thursdays and Fridays – mostly up to 9PM. Supermarkets have extended hours 7 days, the majority opening at 7AM and closing at midnight or 1AM; there are also many 24-hour supermarkets.
Alcohol in Victoria can be purchased at licensed shops/venues, and supermarkets often have an adjoining bottle shop that closes earlier than the supermarket. Some stock alcohol in the supermarket, if they close at the same time as their licence. You must be over 18 years old to purchase alcohol. Most bottleshops close by 10PM to midnight (even on weekends), but some open until 3AM (e.g. on Riversdale road in Booroondara and Russell St Melbourne), and 24-hour bottleshops on both Chapel and Lygon streets, in Stonnington and Melbourne respectively.


=== City shopping ===

Melbourne is known as the fashion capital of Australia with numerous malls and boutique-lined streets.
In the CBD itself, Little Collins Street is home to some of the world's top designers and fashion houses; Collins Street also boasts other high end shops such as Louis Vuitton and Hermès. Brunswick Street (Fitzroy), and the southern end of Chapel Street in Prahran/Windsor, have clusters of stores selling an eclectic mix of vintage, rave, retro and alternative gear such as Shag, Fat Helen's and Beaut Vintage to shop around.
Melbourne Central is another shopping mall based in the city, adjacent to the underground station of the same name. The Bourke Street Mall with the department store David Jones, as well as the flagship store of Myer, Australia's largest department store chain, is another city-central shopping hub.
For the bargain shopper, there is a DFO Outlet Mall (Direct Factory Outlet) located on the Southbank, next to the Melbourne Convention and Exhibition Centre (MCEC), a short walk from Southern Cross Railway Station. There are also camping/military surplus stores on Elizabeth Street for backpacking essentials.


=== Suburban shopping ===
Bridge Road in Richmond is a strip where warehouse direct outlets rule and no-one pays recommended retail price.
Chapel Street in South Yarra is a favourite among the locals, with its spread of exclusive boutiques, cafes and well established chain stores.
There are also several huge shopping complexes in the outer suburbs, such as Chadstone and Southland (Cheltenham) in the South-East. Doncaster Shoppingtown, Eastland (Ringwood) and Knox City are in the outer East. Northland in the north, Highpoint in the west.
Melbourne is also home to many of Australia's largest shopping centres with hundreds of stores, including Chadstone Shopping Centre in Malvern East (the largest shopping centre in the Southern Hemisphere), Highpoint Shopping Centre in Maribyrnong, Knox City Shopping Centre in Wantirna South, and Fountain Gate Shopping Centre in Casey. 


=== Looking for something in particular? ===

For those in the bridal market, High Street in Armadale, Stonnington and Sydney Road in Brunswick, Moreland are the two main clusters for  bridal apparel and accessories.
For those who are looking for local, aspiring designer creations, try Greville Street in South Yarra, Stonnington or Smith Street and surrounds,
To buy funny souvenirs and Australian typical stuff, walk or take the trams on Elizabeth Street up to Victoria Market. You'll find all you need there and the price is usually a half or a third of the prices in the souvenir shops downtown. Make sure to try a bratwurst dog and check out the cheese stalls while you're there.


== Eat ==

For the culinary traveller, Melbourne is one of the best destinations in the world. There is an abundance of affordable, high-quality restaurants representing almost every cuisine. Eating out is cheaper than in Western Europe but not as affordable as North America. The service in Australian restaurants may be more discreet than many North Americans may be used to. Service staff in Australia are paid considerably more than their North American counterparts so tipping is not customary, though you may choose to give a tip if the service was exemplary.
Excellent eateries can be found sprinkled throughout all of the inner (and some outer) suburbs, while certain neighbourhoods have become magnets for residents and restaurants of particular countries. A large range of restaurants and cafes offering high-quality food, and representing various cultures and countries, are scattered throughout the Central City, Southbank, Carlton (mostly Italian and touristy), Victoria Street in Richmond (many low cost popular Vietnamese and South East Asian restaurants), Docklands, South Yarra and Prahran. In Central City, the Queen Victoria Market's prepared-food stalls are also popular places to grab a quick breakfast or lunch. Sydney Road in Brunswick and Coburg is known for its many Middle Eastern, Lebanese, Greek and Turkish restaurants. The popular tourist area of St Kilda offers a large range of good quality restaurants and cafes, especially on Acland Street, and Fitzroy Street.

English-style fish and chip shops are scattered through the suburbs – particularly in bayside areas. Souvlaki/kebabs are very popular in Melbourne, with plentiful outlets in any neighbourhood you could visit; local terminology is split between 'souvlaki' and 'kebab' to refer to the wrap, depending on the area's immigrant mix. A local specialty is the halal snack pack (HSP), kebab meat and sauce served over chips (fries in American terminology). Japanese nori rolls and sushi is very popular and many stores through the city and suburbs sell these items.


=== African ===
There is a concentration of African cafes in Nicholson St, Footscray and Racecourse Road, Flemington. Most serve a small range of Ethiopian cuisine and coffee, and are frequented by the local African residents. The Abyssinian is a well-regarded Eritrean/Ethiopian restaurant popular for locals and tourists for a more elaborate dinner. The stewed foods are served on a large pancake (injera) in the middle of the table. Everyone eats with their hands which is messy but fun.


=== Australian ===
"Australian cuisine" is a nebulous concept that may include traditional native foodstuffs and more modern cafe infusions of international influences. Items such an emu and kangaroo meat are unusual, and are most likely to be found only at the high-end fine dining restaurants as a speciality item. You can however find great kangaroo steaks at the Napier Hotel (Napier St, Fitzroy) for around $20, or at the Edinburgh Castle pub on Sydney Rd, Brunswick for around $10.
Meat pies are available from bakeries and convenience stores.


=== Café/delicatessen food ===
High-quality delicatessen-style eating is available in many of the cafes in the small lanes of central Melbourne. Many high-quality deli style diners can be found outside the city, in Acland Street, St Kilda.


=== Chinese ===
Chinese cuisine has a long tradition in Melbourne and a large number and range of quality restaurants exist. Many are in Chinatown in Little Bourke Street, City centre. They are also dotted through the inner and outer suburbs, with concentrations in Richmond, Footscray, and suburban Box Hill, Glen Waverley, Doncaster and Springvale.
Most of the food is from the Southern (Cantonese) school of cooking, although Northern favourites like dumplings are also available. Eating dim sum, which is consumed either during breakfast or lunch (called yum cha or "drinking tea" in Cantonese) is an extremely popular Sunday pastime for Australians of all ethnic backgrounds.
If you're after a budget option (meals $5–10), try Camy's dumpling house (Shanghai style dumplings) on Tattersalls Lane in the CBD. In the evening, the easiest  – and most amusing – option is the all-you-can eat service for $12 per person. Service is dicey, but always exciting.


=== Greek ===
Lonsdale Street in the City Centre is Melbourne's official Greek precinct with a few bars, cafes and restaurants. In practice, there are only a handful of Greek shops left in this area. Most Greek restaurants and food outlets are found in the suburbs of Brunswick (Sydney Road), Richmond, Coburg and Oakleigh in the south eastern suburbs which have many Greek cafes specialising in frappe, cakes and good souvlaki.


=== Indian ===
Indian restaurants can be found throughout Melbourne, particularly in the city, North Melbourne, and inner eastern suburbs such as Richmond and Hawthorn.  There are also numerous Indian snack bars in the city that serve cheap but tasty curries and samosas, cafeteria-style.
Nepalese food is also popular in Melbourne, and some restaurants feature both Nepalese and Indian cuisine on their menus.  An increasing number of Indian restaurants offer home delivery.


=== Indonesian ===
Befitting its large number of Indonesian students, Melbourne has many Indonesian restaurants. One of the most famous is Blok M on Commercial Rd, Prahran, which many famous Indonesians have visited. Another popular restaurant is Nelayan with two restaurants on Swanston Street and Glenferrie Rd, Agung on Glenferrie Road, Bali Bagus on Franklin Street, Es Teler 77 on Swanston St, Nusantara in Caulfield and Bali Bowl on Flinders Lane. There is also Warung Gudeg, specialising in Jogjakartan local cuisine in Clayton. Warung Agus in West Melbourne serves Balinese cuisine in a rather upscale atmosphere.


=== Italian ===
With its large Italian population Melbourne has countless Italian restaurants, mostly offering food from the southern regions of the Italian peninsula.
Italian cafes and restaurants are plentiful throughout Melbourne but are in the greatest concentration in Lygon Street, Carlton, just north of the city centre. Lygon Street is where Melbourne's coffee culture originated. Suburban Italian restaurants are often large and family-oriented and tend towards the pizza, pasta, seafood and steak formula.
Pizza outlets are very much part of the Melbourne landscape. These include Piazza 51 in Sydney Road, Brunswick, Spiga in Melbourne Central, Pizza Meine Liebe in Northcote, and countless options in Lygon Street.


=== Japanese ===
A quick "sushi" take away lunch can be bought on almost every block where there is food. In and out of Chinatown there are also plenty of places that have good bento, udon and donburi as well.
For dinner, many of the inner city suburbs have Japanese restaurants, but in the city itself there is a long an interesting Japanese restaurant history that continues to this day. Both Melbourne's oldest, Kuni's (which has been around since 1978) and its sister restaurant Kenzans are known for a very authentic, if expensive, meal. There are a plethora of choices for those on stricter budgets as well.


=== Jewish/Kosher ===
St Kilda East and Caulfield are home to vibrant Jewish communities and kosher bakeries and cafes abound, most situated on Carlisle Street in Balaclava, Kooyong Road in Caulfield North and Glenhuntly Road in Elsternwick.


=== Malaysian/Singapore ===
Malaysians and Singaporeans feeling homesick will find a host of restaurants and foodcourt outlets offering items like roti canai/paratha, nasi lemak, prawn noodles, and laksa. Many are in the City Centre; there are Malaysian restaurants scattered throughout Melbourne. Little Bourke Street has a few Malaysian run eateries as well as QV's Kopitiam (corner of Lonsdale and Swanston St, CBD), Boxhill has a new Malaysian run (with Malaysian cooks – most Malaysian run eateries employ cooks from China) eatery called Petaling Street which has provided the most authentic fare so far.


=== Middle Eastern ===
Arab, Lebanese, Moroccan and Turkish restaurants tend to be concentrated in Sydney Road in Brunswick and Coburg to the north of the city centre. These restaurants can also be found in the outer suburbs that are home to those communities, including Dandenong.


=== Thai ===
Thai restaurants are ubiquitous in Melbourne: even dining precincts mostly known for Italian or Vietnamese food boast Thai restaurants.


=== Vegetarian ===
Vegetarian food is widely available in Melbourne, and you can expect every restaurant or cafe to have a few vegetarian or vegan options.
There are also many vegetarian restaurants: Vegie Bar in Brunswick St, Fitzroy, Moroccan Soup Bar, Shakahari in Faraday st, Gopals in Swanston St and Shakahari in Lygon St, Carlton are just some of the options. Crossways at 123 Swanston St. serves a very popular and inexpensive all-you-can-eat vegetarian lunch, M-Sa.
Vegetarian and vegan restaurants are geographically concentrated based on the type of food served. The inner northern and inner southern suburbs of Fitzroy, Richmond, Prahran, and Brunswick have many Australian or American style vegan cafes and vegan options at pubs.
Vegan and vegetarian Chinese, Malaysian, Vietnamese and other Asian restaurants are found in the city centre, Box Hill, Fitzroy, Northcote and Footscray. In Box Hill, Vegie Hut offers a vegetarian and vegan Yum Cha experience.
Vegetarian Indian restaurants are in mostly in the outer suburbs of  Dandenong, Craigieburn, Reservoir, and Werribee, although there are options in the city centre as well.
Middle Eastern restaurants, cafes and bakeries have many vegan and vegetarian options. A popular vegan lunch in Brunswick, Coburg, and Fawkner is a Zaatari wrap filled with tomatoes and olives, available at any of the many Lebanese bakeries.
Most Italian restaurants will cater to vegans; however, there are also fully vegetarian options in Carlton and the city centre. Casa Del Gelato is a Lygon St gelato institution which always has several vegan flavours.
Vegans looking to experience the city's coffee culture will find soy, oat, or almond milk at most cafes.


=== Vietnamese ===
Melbourne's Little Vietnams are in Footscray, North Richmond and Springvale out in the far eastern suburbs. The streets in these areas are lined with pho (noodle) shops and restaurants offering other Vietnamese favourites. Many outlets have also appeared along Swanston Street in the City Centre. However, for convenience to the city and reasonable prices, Victoria Street in North Richmond is your best bet.


=== Others ===
Spanish, Argentinian, Burmese and Polish restaurants can be found in the Richmond/Collingwood/Prahran area.
Melbourne has some Cajun/Creole restaurants and one or two American style diners, but US cuisine is otherwise absent: Foods like Southern-style barbecue and clam chowder are nearly impossible to find.
Korean restaurants are well represented and are scattered throughout the city.
Hopetoun Tea Rooms in Block Arcade on Little Collins Street offer sweets ranging from cakes and pastries to high tea.
Ice cream and gelato are popular post-dinner snacks in the warmer months. Try Piccolina and Messina, although don't be surprised if the line stretches outside in summer.


== Drink ==

Melbournians often draw a distinction between 'bars', meaning the small watering holes described above, and 'pubs', which are larger establishments in the usual Australian or British sense of the word. Melbourne's pubs, particularly those in the city and inner suburbs, usually serve restaurant-standard food and a wide range of local and imported beers.  Pubs usually offer lunch from approximately noon to 2PM, and reopen their kitchens for dinner from approximately 6-10PM.


=== Pubs ===
Gay, lesbian and transgender party goers are welcome everywhere as Melbournians are on the whole very tolerant and welcoming people. Perhaps the one bad thing is that nothing really starts happening until midnight!
The city centre has a number of pubs, the most famous being the Young and Jackson.  Melbourne is also famous for its many trendy bars in the CBD. Most of these, however, are down narrow alleys and streets, and are therefore hard to find unless you know where you are going.
The inner northern suburbs, such as Collingwood and Fitzroy cater for the young, laid-back, and bohemian crowd. Here you will find lots of live music, cheaper prices, and a relaxed atmosphere. Head for Brunswick and Gertrude Streets in Fitzroy and Smith Street, Collingwood for cafes, bars and live music, while Lygon Street, Carlton has a range of Italian restaurants and cafes with a student vibe, as it's located near the University of Melbourne. Victoria Street, North Richmond is the heart of Melbourne's Vietnamese community, with many cheap and cheerful restaurants serving good food.


=== Bars and clubs ===
Melbourne nightlife is  24 hours, loud, colourful and anything goes. Door policies can be strict but once inside high quality entertainment is guaranteed. DJ's, live music, artists and beautiful people can be found. There truly is something for everyone and every taste. It has a massive live music scene, with many inner-suburbs pubs catering to many genres, with drink and food specials all week. The key is to find one you like the most!
Alongside its many clubs, Melbourne is also a fast-rising festival city.  Global event companies such as ID&T, Global Gathering, Ministry of Sound and Trance Energy have begun taking notice of the city and bringing their events. 
Chapel Street/Toorak Road in South Yarra and Prahran has the most glamorous bars and clubs.  Here, expect high prices, strict dress codes, and beautiful people who want to be seen partying with the best.
St. Kilda has a little bit of everything.  With its proximity to the beach, it is often regarded as the Melbourne suburb that feels most like Sydney.
The past decade has seen a revival of Melbourne's inner-city bar scene, with dozens of weird and wonderful watering holes opening up within forgotten alleyways and anonymous lanes of the City Centre (CBD). Melbourne also has its fair share of stylish places to drink, although the better ones can be hard to find. The theory seems to be: the harder your bar is to find, the more people will talk about it. Secrets are tucked around areas like Prahran, South Yarra and many other areas.  However, there are plenty of alleyway bars, once you find one they seem to pop up everywhere you look. Melbourne's clubs often market a members only rule which can upset your more upmarket traveler. The rule is in place to prevent fighting and unappealing groups of men entering a nice club and destroying the atmosphere.
Australian licensing laws are very similar to those in the UK, i.e. you are not allowed to be drunk on licensed premises. In practice though, Melbourne venues and bouncers draw the line very low. Ejection from a premises can be expected for fighting, vomiting, or frequent falling over. Some pubs and clubs are quicker to eject patrons than others, but it's only ever a short walk to another. Licensing is more liberal than what one may be used to, as you can still expect to find a drink past 2AM. This has led to a culture of late-night drinking where some venues won't get busy until some time after 11PM, especially during summer.


=== Coffee ===

Melbourne has a long and rich coffee culture beginning with Victorian era coffee palaces and further enhanced by Italian migrants arriving in the aftermath of World War II.
Perhaps the most famous Italian style cafe is Pellegrini's, 66 Bourke St, Melbourne city. Fitzroy is known for funky, bohemian-style cafes. Collins Street features many elegant cafes. Many Italian style cafes are found in Carlton; Brunetti's is open late and always packed.
Serious espresso connoisseurs would enjoy visiting St Ali cafe/roastery in South Melbourne, Auction Rooms (Errol St) in North Melbourne, or the Maling Room café in Canterbury.


== Sleep ==


=== Budget ===
Melbourne's budget accommodation options can be found in two main areas, namely in the City Centre and in the seaside suburb of St Kilda. However, outside these two areas, there are also several popular budget options in bohemian Fitzroy, South Melbourne, and Windsor.
From January to March during international events such as the Australian Open (January) and the Australian Grand Prix  (late March) hostel accommodation is booked out and some hostels raise their prices. Be sure to book ahead.


=== Mid-range ===
Accommodation in this price bracket can mostly be found in the city centre. There are however options scattered throughout the suburbs.


=== Splurge ===
The City Centre remains the main area for this category of accommodation.


== Connect ==


=== Post ===
The main post office in Melbourne's CBD is located at 440 Collins Street. It is the only post office in the CBD open on a Saturday and has a range of services including passport applications, payments and stationary. There are other post offices and storage lockers throughout the CBD. Postage stamps can be purchased at any post office and packaging can also be purchased there or at other shops such as Officeworks, Kmart or Big W. There are some other post offices in the CBD but these have limited operating hours and services.

1 Melbourne General Post Office Collins Street West, 440 Collins Street (Tram 12, 48 or 109 to Stop 3 William Street / Collins Street, or tram 58 to Stop 4 Collins Street / William Street), ☏ +61 131318, fax: +61 3 9642 0214. M–F 8:30AM–5:30PM, Sa 10AM–3PM, Su Closed.    (updated Aug 2025)


=== Phone ===
Public phone booths can be found all around the city and the suburbs. Near stations and post-offices are the usual places to look. International calling cards are also available at convenience stores. Using Telstra payphones are free to make calls and they also have paid Wi-Fi hotspots.
Mobile phone coverage within the CBD and surrounds is usually good-to-excellent. 4G and 5G services are available throughout the city, however 3G services are unavailable after late-2024. You will require some identification to purchase a prepaid (PAYG) SIM card, which are sold at most convenience stores, newsagents and supermarkets. This may be requested at time of purchase, and/or time of activation.
The networks are run by Telstra, Optus and Vodafone with other resellers available, and sometimes at a cheaper price. Shop around online for the most suitable deal if you want to save a few dollars. As is the case throughout Australia, you will need to be identified to access it – and if you're from overseas it's often easier to take your passport into a telco store than try to answer the identification questions online. Lycamobile and Lebara specialise in plans with cheaper international calls.
Melbourne's area code for landline telephones is 03 (internationally dial +613). To make an international direct dial call, the trunk line access code is generally 0011 or simply add a + in front of the number if your phone allows.


=== Internet ===
Melbourne offers a free public Wi-Fi which allows for up to 250 MB per device, per day and does not require personal information or feature pop-up advertising. It can be accessed in the Melbourne CBD including CBD train stations, Bourke St Mall, Queen Victoria Market and South Wharf Promenade at the Melbourne Convention and Exhibition Centre. Additionally, Internet cafes are dotted throughout the city, especially near the backpacker enclaves of St Kilda and Flinders Street. Speeds are usually excellent and rates range from $2.50–12 per hour, the cheapest usually found in combination market/internet cafes in the Asian parts of town.

 Telstra Air, All throughout Melbourne. Telstra Air offers paid hotspot access (free for Telstra customers or those with a Fon plan). (updated Aug 2019)
 mag nation, 88 Elizabeth St. This shop has free WiFi. 
 HiSpeed Internet Kiosks (At Spencer Street DFO.). A chain with many stores across the country. 21 minutes for $2. 
e:FiftyFive (55 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne) is like a huge basement lounge room that feels more like a bar than an internet cafe. Great DJs, comfortable couches and dirt-cheap $2/hour internet access when you buy a drink attract plenty of travellers and will make writing that email home an enjoyable experience.
VA (Bourke Street, Melbourne) is arguably the best of the countless internet/LAN gaming cafes in Melbourne, which is packed full of "hardcore gamers" on Sunday afternoons (sponsored competition day). Non-member rates start at $3.50/hour while membership costs a mere $15 (includes $12 credit) and benefits include play offers such as $4/2 hours, $5/3 hours and $6/4 hours, as well as day and night packages.
Cydus (Victoria Street, North Melbourne) large range of internet usage services every day and at any time (including most public holidays). Non-member rates start at $3/hour while membership costs $10 (includes 2 hours free play) and membership rates are $2/hour while member offers include "Endurance Pass" (5 hours play + $2.80 snack voucher) and "Survival Pass" (10 hours play).
 City Library, 253 Flinders Ln. Free internet access through Melbourne Library Service (approximately 2 Mbps down- and upload). 
The State Library [3]. Offers free internet at many workstations and does not require membership (limited to 15 minutes or 1 hour per session, no session limits). You can get a free membership for access to free wireless web access, however, the wireless access is limited and you may not be able to access some sites and services. Printing facilities are also provided for a fee.
Melbourne Central shopping centre (corner of Swanston and La Trobe St) has free wireless internet access.
Australia on Collins shopping centre (on Collins St) has free wireless internet access.
Federation Square (corner of Flinders Street and Swanston Street, outside Flinders Street railway station) is supposedly Australia's largest free outdoor wireless hotspot.
Victorian Government Public Wi-Fi The State Government provides a public wireless network across the city, free of charge.
 McDonald's. All McDonald's branches in town have free Wi-Fi. It's fairly fast and unlimited if you register. 


== Cope ==


=== Consulates ===
  China, 570 St. Kilda Rd, ☏ +61 3 9824-6450, fax: +61 3 9822-0606. 
  Greece, 37-39 Albert Rd, ☏ +61 3 9846-4524, fax: +61 3 9866-4933, grgencon.mel@mfa.gr. 
  Iceland, 48 Kooyongkoot Road, Hawthorn, ☏ +61 3 9818-4242, fax: +61 3 9818-4460, arnadottir@bigpond.com. 
  India, 344, St. Kilda Road, ☏ +61 3 9682 5800, fax: + 61 3 9696 8251, cons3.melbourne@mea.gov.in. 
  Indonesia, 72 Queens Road, ☏ +61 3 9525 2755, info.melbourne@kemlu.go.id. (updated Jan 2018)
  Japan, Level 25, 570 Bourke Street, ☏ +61 3 9679-4510, fax: +61 3 9600-1541, meljapan@mb.mofa.go.jp. 
  Latvia, 3/30 Lansell Road, Toorak, ☏ +61 3 9824-0707, latcon@ozemail.com.au. 
  Malaysia, Level 1, 432 St. Kilda Road, ☏ +61 3 9573-5400 (Recept.), +61 3 9573-5402 (Consul Gen.'s Office), +61 3 9573-5407 (Immigration Dept.), fax: +61 3 9866-6204, mwmelbourne@kln.gov.my. 
  Nepal, Level 7, 28-32 Elizabeth Street, ☏ +61 3 9650-8338, fax: +61 3 9650-2020, info@nepalconsulate.net.au. 
  New Zealand, Level 4, 45 William St, ☏ +61 3 9678-0201, fax: +61 3 9678-0204, melbourne.consulate@nzte.govt.nz. 
  Poland, Level 12, 20 Collins Street, ☏ +61 3 9654-5180, fax: +61 3 9654-5180, georgejluk@hotmail.com. 
  Portugal, 846 Toorak Rd, Hawthorn East, ☏ +61 3 9822-7140, fax: +61 3 9822-7379, portcon@mira.net. 
  Romania, 448 St. Kilda Road, Etaj 5, Birou 5.05-5.06, ☏ +61 997 838 04, +61 997 838 06, fax: +61 997 838 07, melbourne@mae.ro. Consulate. 
  South Korea, Level 10, 636 St Kilda Road, ☏ +61 3 9533-3800, fax: +61 3 9533-3801, conmel@mofa.go.kr. 
  Spain, 146A Elgin Street, Carlton, ☏ +61 3 9347-1966, fax: +61 3 9347-7330, cog.melbourne@maec.es. 
  United Kingdom, 17th Floor, 90 Collins St, ☏ +61 3 9652-1600. 
  United States, 553 St. Kilda Rd, ☏ +61 3 9526-5900, fax: +61 3 9525-0769. 


== Stay safe ==
The Australia-wide emergency number is 000, with the ambulance service, fire department and police being available through this number.


=== Walking ===
It is important to take care around tram lines. Trams are heavy and it can take over 100 metres for a tram to safely stop. Even if a tram has passed, look carefully both ways, as trams will often run nose-to-tail on busy corridors like Swanston Street. Many tram stops further from the CBD often require walking on to the road. There is often traffic around trams, so be careful crossing if running to catch a tram. 


=== Driving ===
Driving in Melbourne can be nerve-wracking due to the presence of trams. You may have heard of the infamous "hook turn" that requires you to turn right from the left lane. These turns are predominantly in the CBD and become rarer as you head towards the suburbs. If driving, it is illegal to U-turn across tram tracks or pass a tram while the doors are open, and passengers are disembarking. Toll roads will be marked by blue signs with gold text indicating that you will be charged. Any electronic toll collection tag in Australia works on toll roads in Melbourne.


=== Public transport ===
Areas near major public transport stations, such as Flinders Street and Southern Cross, can sometimes become gathering spots for homeless individuals and those affected by drugs or alcohol. Locations like the intersection of Flinders Street and Elizabeth Street tend to have a higher presence of such individuals. While these areas are generally safe, it is advisable to remain vigilant, as disturbances can occasionally occur.
Protective Services Officers (PSOs) patrol Melbourne's railway stations from 5PM to the last train, with all stations possessing a 'safety zone' with increased lighting, CCTV cameras and easy access to the red emergency button. Trains also contain buttons in the case of an emergency, while it's a good idea to sit close to the driver while on a train, tram or bus late at night. The public transport network is generally safe, although drug or alcohol affected travellers occasionally give other commuters grief. Areas around railway stations tend to be hang-outs for youth gangs in parts of outer Melbourne, particularly at night. Stay in company, and don't engage.


=== Violent crime ===
Melbourne has few problems with random crime and violence, although some parts of the city are best avoided at night. The city centre, particularly the area around the nightclub and strip club district of King Street, can be a hotspot for alcohol-fuelled violence late at night. Other areas to be cautious around include Chapel Street, and St Kilda, both of which also feature bars and nightclubs. However, you are more likely to be heckled by drunken revellers and street walkers than you are to be actually threatened or randomly attacked. Demonstrating normal safety precautions and sticking to well-lit streets is a good way to avoid trouble.
Some areas of Western and Northern Melbourne have a reputation, generally gained by media reports, of violence. However, if you want to venture out into these areas during the day, there is no exceptional risk.


=== Theft ===
If driving a car, beware of car theft or break-in. Keep valuables out of sight when parked, always lock the car and leave the windows up before you leave. If you are waiting in your car, lock the car as well. A police officer will always show ID before asking you to open your door or window.


=== Scams ===
Although scams are rare in Melbourne, there has been an increase in touts at Melbourne Airport who claim to be Uber drivers or offer cheaper fares into the city. To ensure your safety and avoid overcharging, it's best to use the official rideshare apps or taxi services available at designated pickup zones. Announcements are periodically made by the airport warning of such schemes.
If you are a traveler or staying in Melbourne to study who appears to be of Asian descent, you might be approached by young individuals or pairs who seem well-to-do. They may ask you to do a survey or enquire about your faith and where you live before inviting you to a social event. Be cautious, as these individuals may be affiliated with cults operating in multiple Australian cities trying to prey on unsuspecting people.


== Go next ==

Melbourne is fairly centrally located on the coast of Victoria, and there are many natural and man-made attractions that make for a nice day trip. Another way to visit regional Victoria is utilising the PTV public transport system. Regular train journeys leave from Southern Cross station. Regional attractions include:


=== Melbourne outskirts ===

These places are within an hour's drive of central Melbourne.

Werribee — historic mansion and open-range zoo
Dandenong Ranges — national park, gardens, historic steam railway
Wine-tasting in the Yarra Valley, Healesville and the Healesville Sanctuary
Port Phillip Bay scenic drive and the Mornington Peninsula — the seaside resort locations of Sorrento and Portsea, offering both bayside and surf beaches
Warburton and Mount Donna Buang — winter sightseeing snow


=== Northern Victoria ===
Echuca-Moama - watersports on the lake
Mount Buller — skiing and sightseeing.


=== Eastern Victoria ===
Wilson's Promontory
Phillip Island - Scenic parks, beaches, and a penguin watching area.


=== Western Victoria ===
The Victorian Goldfields — Bendigo, Ballarat, Castlemaine, Maldon.
Grampians National Park.
South West Coast — Geelong, Bellarine Peninsula, and Torquay. Some of the best surf beaches in the world.
Great Ocean Road, with its many scenic vistas. Drive from Torquay to Warrnambool, with popular stops in Lorne, Apollo Bay and Port Campbell to see the famous Twelve Apostles.