Mexico City (Spanish: México, Ciudad de México or CDMX) is the capital of the Mexican Republic, seat of the federal powers, and the most populous city in the country.
The city center is built on the ruins of the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan, and later came to be the capital of New Spain, which included much of North America. The city has grown fast in the 20th century, and is today North America's largest city (and the world's largest Spanish-speaking city) with 9.2 million inhabitants in the city proper, and 22 million in the urban area (in 2020).
With an extension of 1,485 km² and a maximum height of 3,930 masl, Mexico City has established itself as one of the most important financial and cultural centers of the American continent and of the entire globe by receiving distinguished recognition as the #1 Place to go in 2016, granted by The New York Times; and World Design Capital in 2018, awarded by the International Council of Societies of Industrial Design (ICSID).
Three of Mexico's many World Heritage Sites are in the capital: the colonial-era Centro Histórico, sites related to architect Luis Barragán in Chapultepec and the university campus in Coyoacán. Several more can be visited as a daytrip.


== Districts ==
The city is administratively divided into 16 alcaldías (boroughs) which are in turn subdivided into colonias (neighborhoods), of which there are around 2150; however, it is better to think of the city in terms of districts to facilitate the visitor getting around.  Many older towns like Coyoacán, San Angel and Tlalpan got merged into the urban sprawl, and each of these still manages to preserve some of their original and unique characteristics.

Other areas of Mexico City include:

La Villa de Guadalupe - In the borough of Gustavo A. Madero in the northern part of the city. Home to the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe, perhaps the holiest Catholic site in the Americas. Draws a large crowd of pilgrims from around the world every day.
Ciudad Satelite - Residential and shopping area north of the city.
Magdalena Contreras - Sometimes called the city's "green lungs", this area in the southwest of Mexico City is heavily forested with eco-parks to the south and about 250,000 residents in the northern urban areas near the Periferico. This area lies west of Coyoacan.
Iztapalapa - Largely impoverished area in eastern part of the city that nevertheless has a number of historical and cultural sites and a famous Easter celebration
Milpa Alta - Rural borough in the southeast of Mexico City. Famous for its mole production and festival, nopal cactus fields, and the San Andrés convent in Mixquic.
Interlomas - Residential and shopping area at the West of the City
Azcapotzalco - Mainly residential area in the Northwest of the city. Home to the Parque Bicentenario, built in a former oil refinery, and the Arena Ciudad de México, a modern concert and sports venue.
Tláhuac - A former island between the Lakes of Xochimilco and Chalco. Now famous for its production of pottery and an alternative embarkation point to see the ancient gardens and canals that used fill the Valley of Mexico.


== Understand ==

The greater Mexico City metropolitan area is one of the world's largest and the largest city in North America, with 22 million people living in the metropolitan area in 2020. It sits in the Valley of Mexico. It is shaped roughly like an oval of about 60 km by 40 km with large parts of it built on the dry bed of Lake Texcoco, and surrounded on three sides by tall mountains and volcanoes such as the Ajusco, the Popocatepetl and the Iztaccihuatl.  Mexico City proper (with an estimated population of 9.2 million) is the country's capital, and since 2016 has been a "federal entity" with the same powers as the states of Mexico, though still separate from the states. Confusingly, the rest of the metropolitan area extends beyond Mexico City into the State of Mexico, which surrounds Mexico City on the west, north and east, and Hidalgo further north. Practically speaking, Mexico City refers to the city proper and is the area where tourists will spend all or most of their time.
Mexico City is divided up into 16 boroughs similar to those in New York, which in turn are divided into colonias (neighborhoods), of which there are about 2150. Knowing what colonia you're going to is essential to getting around, and almost all locals will know where the main colonias are (there are some colonias with duplicate or very similar names). As with many very large cities, the structure is relatively decentralized, with several parts of the city having their own miniature downtown areas. However, the real downtown areas are Centro, the old city center, and Zona Rosa, the new business and entertainment district.
The city center is 2230 m above mean sea level, while some areas reach up to 3000 m. Some people have breathing difficulties at high places and have experienced difficulty when breathing. The altitude is equivalent to more than 7,200 ft.  This is far higher than any metropolitan area in the United States. If you live closer to sea level, you may experience difficulty breathing due to altitude and pollution. Air quality has, however, been improved in the last few years.

Mexico City's night life is like all other aspects of the city; it is huge. There is an enormous selection of venues: clubs, bars, restaurants, cafes, and variations and combinations thereof to choose from. There is incredible variation, from ultramodern lounges in Santa Fe and Reforma, to centuries-old dance halls in Centro and Roma. There are also pubs in Tlalpan and Coyoacán and clubs of every stripe in Insurgentes, Polanco, Condesa and the Zona Rosa.
Also, when going out, check the date, since this is an important indicator of how full places will generally be and how long you might have to wait to get in. Salaries are usually paid twice per month: the 30th/31st-1st and the 14th-15th. On or soon after these dates is when most Mexicans will go out, especially if payday coincides with a weekend. In the more expensive places, people might leave for Acapulco or vacations farther afield during the summer and long weekends. Mexican weekends, in the sense of when it is common to go out drinking, are Thursday night to Sunday morning and sometimes throughout Sunday.


=== History ===

The origins of Mexico City date back to 1325, when the Aztec capital city of Tenochtitlan was founded and later destroyed in 1521 by Spanish conqueror Hernan Cortes. The city served as the capital of the Vice-royalty of New Spain until the outbreak of the Independence War in 1810. The city became the capital of the Mexican Empire in 1821 and of the Mexican Republic in 1823 after the abdication of Agustin de Iturbide. During the Mexico-US war in 1847, the city was invaded by the American army. In 1864 the French invaded Mexico and the emperor Ferdinand Maximilian of Habsburg ruled the country from the Castillo de Chapultepec and ordered to build Avenue of the Empress (today's Paseo de la Reforma promenade).
Porfirio Díaz assumed power in 1876 and left an outstanding mark in the city with many European styled buildings such as the Palacio de Bellas Artes and the Palacio Postal. Diaz was overthrown in 1910 with the Mexican Revolution and this marked a radical change in the city's architecture. The 20th century saw the uncontrolled growth of the city beyond the Centro Historico with the influx of millions of migrants from the rest of the country. In 1968, the city was host to the Olympic Games, which saw the construction of the Azteca Stadium, the Palacio de los Deportes, the Olympic Stadium and other sports facilities. In 1985 the city suffered an 8.1 Magnitude earthquake. Between 10,000 and 40,000 people were killed. 412 buildings collapsed and another 3,124 buildings were seriously damaged in the city.


=== Economy ===
Mexico City ranks 8th in terms of GDP size among 30 world cities. More than a third of the total Mexican economy is concentrated here. The size of its economy is US$315 billion, that's compared to $1.1 trillion for New York City and $575 billion for Chicago. Mexico City is the wealthiest city in all of Latin America, with a GDP per capita of $25,258.  Mexico City's poverty rate is also the lowest in all of Mexico, however, Mexico is only about the 65th richest country in the world out of 184 countries. Mexico City is home to the Mexican Stock Exchange. Most of the large local and multinational corporations are headquartered here, mainly in the Polanco and Santa Fe districts.


=== Climate ===

Mexico City has a monsoon-influenced temperate oceanic climate with five seasons, Spring, Summer, Monsoon, Autumn, and Winter. Spring months are mild and sunny, while the summer months warm and humid. The monsoon season lasts from June to September, which can vary from light to heavy rains especially in the late afternoon. Dawn in the autumn and winter get really cold, but with an amazingly clear sky. Temperatures range from 0°C in late October, November, December and January mornings, to 32°C in March, April and May during mid-day highs.


=== Air pollution ===

Many prospective travelers will be aware of Mexico City's somewhat dated notoriety for having terrible air pollution. The city sits in a valley surrounded by mountains and volcanoes, which results in poor air circulation and a tendency for air pollutants to stagnate over the city. Due to the extremely rapid pace of urbanization in the 20th century, little consideration was given to environmental planning. By 1987, air quality had deteriorated so much that one day thousands of birds appeared dead on the sidewalks of the city. Environmentalists attributed this to air pollution. This shocking event encouraged authorities to implement measures to improve air quality. Most heavy industries (glass, car and steel factories) and oil refineries were relocated outside of the city and unleaded vehicle fuels were introduced.
Today, the air quality is much better. Ozone and carbon dioxide levels are falling, and for most visitors, air pollution is no longer a major concern. For more detailed coverage of Mexico City's air pollution, see the "Stay safe" section. There still is a noticeable difference in air quality between the dry season (November to March) and the rainy season from June to September, with air quality being best during rainy season.


=== People ===
With a population of more than 20 million in the greater metropolitan area, you can expect to find all kinds of people in Mexico City, in terms of racial, sexual, political, cultural and wealth diversity. Citizens are mostly Mestizo (people of mixed European and Amerindian racial background) and white. Amerindian people constitute less than one percent of the city's population, but there are some who are still moving to the city in search of opportunities. There are significant minorities of descendants of immigrants from Latin America, the Middle East and East Asia, as well as smaller ones from other regions. As elsewhere in Latin America, socioeconomic status tends to be highly correlated with ethnicity in Mexico City: by and large, the upper and middle classes have more European ancestry than the poor and the lower middle classes.
The city, as the rest of the country, has a very unequal distribution of wealth that can be characterized geographically, generally speaking, as follows: the middle and upper classes tend to live in the west and south of the city (concentrated in the delegaciones of Benito Juarez, Miguel Hidalgo, Coyoacan, Tlalpan, Cuajimalpa and Alvaro Obregon). The east of the city, most notably Iztapalapa (the most populous delegacion) is much poorer. The same applies to municipalities of greater Mexico City (Ciudad Nezahualcóyotl, Chalco, Chimalhuacán). Although there are pockets of poverty everywhere (and often side by side with the shiny-glitzy condos of the nouveau riche, like in Santa Fe in Cuajimalpa) and pockets of wealth in the East (such as Lomas Estrella in Iztapalapa), it is easily noticeable that as one travels east the buildings begin to look more shabby and the people look increasingly browner—a testimony to Mexico's heritage of racial and socioeconomic inequality.
Since it is a big city, it is the home of large foreign communities, like Cubans, Spaniards, Americans, Japanese, Chilean, Lebanese, and more recently Argentines and Koreans. Mexico City has a number of ethnic districts with restaurants and shops that cater to groups such as Chinese and Lebanese Mexicans. It is the temporary home to many expats too, working here for the many multinational companies operating in Mexico. Foreigners of virtually any ethnic background may not get a second look if they dress conservatively and attempt to speak Spanish.
Mexico City is one of the most liberal cities in Latin America. Contrary to other Latin American capitals, it has a political orientation far to the left of the rest of the country. The centre-left PRD has governed the city continuously since its citizens were allowed to elect its mayor and representatives since 1997. It has liberal laws on abortion, prostitution, euthanasia and was the first jurisdiction in Latin America to legalize same-sex marriage (in December 2009). As such, this is generally a gay friendly city, particularly in the Zona Rosa District, and is generally friendly to foreigners and immigrants. See LGBT Mexico City


=== Costs ===
Although Mexico City is considered an expensive city by Mexican standards, your trip budget will depend on your lifestyle and way of traveling, as you can find cheap and expensive prices for almost everything. Public transportation is very cheap and there are many affordable places to eat. On the other hand, you can find world-class hotels and fancy restaurants with higher prices. A daily backpacker budget for transportation and meals should range between M$150 and 300 (pesos) a day, using public transport and eating at street stands, while a more comfortable budget should range between M$300 and 500 a day using private taxis (taxi de sitio) and eating at decent sit-down restaurants. For those with more expendable cash, you can find plenty of outlets for your dollars, euros, pounds, yen, etc.


=== Addresses ===
The address system is fairly simple and has the street name, house number, colonia (neighborhood), borough, city, state and postal code. Many are confused by the fact that the house number comes after the street name, unlike in the US and many other countries where the number precedes the street. Sometimes addresses are instead given based on an intersection ("esquina de/con ..."), or on a street where a place is located and the two streets between which it is located ("... entre calles ... y ..."). It is good to point out that streets can frequently change names, long avenues are split into sections (such as Insurgentes into Insurgentes Norte, Centro and Sur), and street numbering is not always in order, especially in poorer neighbourhoods.
In Mexico City, streets within a neighbourhood often follow a certain theme, such as Latin American countries in the Centro Histórico, European cities in the Zona Rosa or intellectuals in Polanco. A typical address could be something like this: Colima 15, Colonia Roma Norte, Delegación Cuauhtémoc, México, Distrito Federal, 06760. Here, "México" refers to the city and not the country. The order is pretty standard except for the position of the postal code.


=== Photography ===
For the avid photographer, there are a few pointers to keep in mind. The city is paranoid about cameras and especially about tripods. You might be asked to delete pictures, even if they were taking from a public space. You are not allowed to use a tripod in any ticketed place, such as museums, the metro stations, and architectural ruins. You will be politely asked to hold your camera in your hands. Apparently, it has something to do with being a professional.
Memory cards can easily be found at several locations, including at Radio Shack, Office Depot, Office Max, Best Buy or Wal-Mart. Prices tend to be on the high end, but they are still affordable.  You could also try some of the places that are dedicated to selling photographic equipment, they are easily identifiable by the street signs for well known brand names. It is not unusual, however, for high-end camera retailers to offer few if any accessories.
You can print your photos at most of the major pharmacy chains around town, look for Farmacias Benavides, Farmacias Guadalajara or Farmacias del Ahorro (with a white 'A' inside a red circle).  Prices differ from store to store. Also, while near the Zocalo on the street Republica de Brasil, many people standing on the side of the sidewalk will verbally advertise "imprentas." They are offering stationery printing services, not photographic printing.
For people who love to do street photography, a good place to start is in front of the Bellas Artes square, during afternoons. There is a smörgåsbord of faces cutting across the square and perching on one of the benches for an hour that will easily give you access to photography fodder. Many urchins and ethnic street dwellers have learned to ask for money before allowing you to shoot them. Sympathize and accept it as it is worth it.
Some museums, like the Museum of National History in the Chapultepec, charge an extra fee for those with video cameras. Also in most museums, flash photography is not permitted.


=== Language ===
Spanish is Mexico’s official language, but at the majority of hotels and tour services the personnel also speak English. As the historic center of Aztec culture, there are still pockets of indigenous Nahuatl speakers. The Milpa Alta area is where you would most likely encounter people speaking the Nahuatl language.


=== Electricity ===
The voltage in Mexico is 127 volts at a frequency of 60 Hz. The plugs are flat pinned, type B, like those used in the United States. We recommend carrying adapters, because they are not available in all hotels.
Mexico's 127 volt standard also has a 10% acceptable variation, in which voltages of 114-139 are considered acceptable. 
Brownouts, in which voltage may drop to ~80-100v for extended periods are also a more common thing in Mexico than in some other countries like the US. Swells, in which voltage rises above 139 are also possible, but less common.
Brownouts and swells can both damage electronics. If you notice that some devices (usually lights) are able to power on, but others can not, you are in a brownout and should turn off anything particularly valuable, especially anything with a motor in it, even if it is able to turn on, until the brownout is resolved. 
You can find Automatic Voltage Regulators in most larger supermarkets or tech equipment stores that will convert the voltage into an acceptable range if it's a brownout or over voltage. Pay attention to the rated power output and voltage ranges - some can function in as low as 95-85 volts, etc, and cheap units may be rated for a few hundred watts, or more expensive ones at even 1000 or 1500 watts for larger appliances.


=== Weather ===
The rainy season typically begins in May and ends around October. Generally it consists of sunny mornings followed by cloudy afternoons with some rain. Mornings and nights may be cold. The average temperature is 16 ° C. Check the weather forecast.
In January it will normally be cold but sunny. However, since we will be doing outdoor trips please make sure to bring a good jacket to stay warm.


== Get in ==


=== By plane ===


==== 1 Benito Juarez International Airport (MEX IATA) ====
Main article: Benito Juárez International Airport
Most travellers arrive to Mexico City by air, to Benito Juárez International Airport, located in the eastern part of the city. This is the most convenient airport to most parts of the Mexico City area. From the airport, downtown hotels can be as close as 15 minutes by taxi if traffic is light (which it rarely is). A bus terminal inside the airport makes for easy connections to nearby cities.


==== 2 Felipe Ángeles International Airport (NLU  IATA) ====

With brand new facilities for commercial flights, including modern luggage scanners which don't require passengers to remove laptops or liquids, this airport opened to the public in Spring 2022. The airport has long been the Mexican Air Force's busiest facility. It has historically been known as Santa Lucia Military Base (and still operates as an active military base), but is now part of the region's transportation solution to alleviate congestion at MEX. Like most airports in Mexico, nobody actually uses the long official name of an obscure government figure, but rather, the Chilangos simply call this airport "Santa Lucia", or often by the abbreviation "AIFA" (as opposed to "AICM", which denotes Benito Juarez/Mexico City International).
While constructing the new passenger facilities, workers uncovered several woolly mammoth remains, which are now housed in the beautiful new Museo Paleontologico Santa Lucia Quinametzen (inside the airport facility). If you have a spare hour or two between flights, a visit would be time well spent.
NLU is served by Aeromexico, Volaris, and Viva Aerobus for destinations throughout Mexico, and by Venezuelan carrier Conviasa for flights to Caracas. Flying to this airport could (maybe) save you some money over flying to MEX. Skyscanner and Google Flights don't include the Felipe Ángeles airport if you look for flights to/from Mexico City. Instead you need to specifically type in this airport. kiwi.com does include this airport when typing in Mexico City. When booking flights to Mexico City on other sites (such as Kayak), be aware that they sometimes show results that mix NLU and MEX arrivals and departures, so check your reservations before ordering an Uber to the wrong airport.
NLU is the main hub for the newly re-launched Mexicana airlines, which offers flights to major destinations throughout Mexico. (More flights and routes will be offered after December 3, 2023 when the new Tulum International Airport (TQO IATA) opens as the second hub for Mexicana.


===== Ground Transportation =====
Like most outlying airports, NLU is not as convenient for travelers as MEX - allow at least 90 minutes from the airport to downtown. The airport is 49 km (30 miles) from the city and only limited public transportation is available. As at June 2024, there is a train station, but it doesn't seem to have been finished yet. Ride share services don't seem to be available, according to various traveller reports, but there are taxi stands which will get you into the centre of town for about $750MXN (fixed price).
Vivabus, will take you to the Central de Autobuses del Norte (North) and Central de Autobuses del Sur Terminal Taxqueña (South) bus terminals in the city. These buses are your fastest and easist option, but their departures are not regularly timed so make sure you check the online timetables to make sure they suit your flight.
A bus station in the main terminal is served by ADO, Futura and Conexion buses. Buses from AIFA go to AICM (16 daily departures), Autobuses del Norte (4 daily departures), and the city of Pachuca (5 daily departures). Each of these destinations is about 1 hour from AIFA and fares cost about M$150 (Oct 2025).
If you want to take regular public transport into Mexico City, it'll take you about 2 hours - although you could always book a ride share service at one of the stops along the way (luggage space on the buses is limited, and large luggage is forbidden on the Metro). Look for the Terminal de Pasajeros bus stop where the Mexibus will take you to Ojo de Agua (about 40 mins), where you then have to change to another Mexibus for Ciudad Azteca (try to get an express, and DO NOT get one that terminates at Central de Abastos). At Ciudad Azteca you can then change to the Metro (line B) - just follow the signs through the shopping mall and go over the bridge. Note that the Mexibus requires a separate card for ticketing - the MI card for Metro and city buses won't work. These cards cost $19 and include $9 worth of credit - $28MXN in exact change will get you the card and on the two buses. The ticket machines are cash only and don't give change, although having 2 pesos leftover on your card if you only have 30 available isn't the end of the world.
The airport is relatively close to Teotihuacán (about 40 minutes' drive), so if you only have small luggage you could get a taxi (or Uber from Ojo de Agua) here and explore it on your way to the city.


==== 3 Licenciado Adolfo López Mateos International Airport (TLC IATA) ====
This airport, known locally as Toluca International Airport, is in the city of Toluca 50 km southwest of Mexico City. There are very limited flights into Toluca. As of 2024, there are no international flights to Toluca. Domestic flights serve 8 destinations, including Tijuana, Monterrey, and Cancun. 
Reaching the Toluca airport from the West of Mexico City (such as Santa Fe) is easy, but it can be time-consuming to do so from the rest of Mexico City.

Caminante offers the best transportation from and to Toluca's airport. It has the biggest fleet of taxis at the best price and it also includes deluxe Mercedes Benz vans. These taxis cost M$600 to Santa Fe and M$650 (April 2022) to the metro station Observatorio.
Viva Aerobus offers airport transport through its Viva Transfer shuttle on all flights to Toluca. The price is M$76 (April 2022) from the metro station Observatorio.
Tren Insurgente is a new intercity rail system connecting Mexico City with Toluca and western Mexico State. As of early 2024, the trains are operating in Mexico State (with a station for Toluca International Airport that includes shuttle service to the terminal), however the line's extension through Mexico City to the Observatorio station is not yet open.


==== Other airports ====
MEX remains the best bet for most passengers to or from Mexico City. But NLU and TLC might work better for some travelers. Depending on your overall trip, it might also be worth considering flying to nearby cities as Puebla (PBC IATA), Querétaro (QRO IATA) or Cuernavaca (CVJ IATA), but reaching Mexico City from these places could be quite time-consuming and tiresome.


=== By carpooling ===
You can have a look for shared rides on Blablacar. These are around 30-50% cheaper than first-class intercity buses. Prices are approximately as of January 2022:
• Cuernavaca – M$80
• Puebla – M$120
• Querétaro – M$190
• Morelia – M$290


=== By bus ===
See also Bus travel in Mexico.
Being the national transportation hub there are various bus lines going into and out of Mexico City in all directions, from/to around the country at varying distances. Regional bus companies serve the surrounding states of Mexico, Hidalgo, Puebla and Guerrero while nation-wide bus lines come from all over the nation to as far as the U.S border in the north and the Guatemalan border to the south. Most foreigners coming into the country would most likely fly in but it's also possible to travel to Mexico City by bus from various cities in the U.S. and from anywhere in the Central American isthmus.
The city has four major bus stations based on the compass points. They are:

4 Terminal Central Autobuses del Norte (North) (Cien Metros or Mexico Norte), Eje Central Lázaro Cárdenas No. 4907, Colonia Magdalena de las Salinas (Metro station stop Autobuses del Norte (Line 5, yellow)), ☏ +52-55 5587 1552. Most buses departing to & from bordering towns with the U.S. such as Nuevo Laredo, Matamoros, Tijuana, Reynosa, and Ciudad Juarez. Other destinations that buses go to from this terminal: Acapulco, Aguascalientes, Guadalajara, Guanajuato, San Miguel de Allende, Puerto Vallarta, Monterrey, Leon, Querétaro, San Luis Potosi, Hermosillo, Durango, Zacatecas, etc. Overall, buses are bound to western and northern Mexico.    
5 Terminal Central Autobuses del Poniente (West) (Observatorio or Mexico Poniente), Sur 122 y Rio Tacubaya, Del. Álvaro Obregón, Col. Real del Monte (Metro station stop - Observatorio (west end of Line 1, pink).), ☏ +52-55 5271 4519. also known as Terminal de Autobuses Observatorio. Usually used for destinations due west such as Colima, Manzanillo, Morelia, Puerto Vallarta, Toluca and any destinations in the states of Colima, Jalisco, Michocoan and the western part of Mexico state.    (updated Oct 2024)
6 Terminal Central del Sur (South) (Taxqueña or Mexico Sur), Av. Tasqueña 1320, Colonia Campestre Churubusco (Metro Station - Taxqueña (South end of Line 2, blue)), ☏ +52 55. Buses from here go south of Mexico City such as, Acapulco, Cuernavaca, Taxco and various places in Colima, Guerrero, Morelos & southern part of Mexico state. Station is also north end (Taxqueña) of the light rail (Tren Ligero)) tram going to/from Xochimilco.    (updated Oct 2024)
7 Terminal de Autobuses de Pasajeros de Oriente (East) (TAPO or Mexico Oriente), Calzada Ignacio Zaragoza 200, Colonia 10 de Mayo Venustiano Carranza (Metro Station - Lazaro Cardenas (Line 1, Pink; Line B, Gray); next to the national capitol Building (Camara de Diputados)), ☏ +52 55 5762-5977. Serving destinations in the eastern & southeastern states of Veracruz, Puebla, Hidalgo, Oaxaca, Chiapas, Yucatan, Quintana Roo, Tlaxcala, Tamauliapas, Campeche, Tabasco and the Guatemalan border. Traffic in and around the TAPO area (and any other bus terminal for that matter) can get quite congested during peak/rush hours. Always give yourself an extra hour or so in travel time, including to/from, to be sure that you do not miss a bus or a connection.    (updated Jan 2018)
There are many other smaller bus stations, which serve fewer destinations (mostly regional) but can be very useful if you wish to avoid congestion or are traveling to/from the outer parts of Mexico City. These include:

 Aeropuerto (Mexico City Airport) (AICM). There are two bus stations in terminals 1 and 2 of the Mexico City airport, serving nearby big cities such as Querétaro and Puebla. Buses to/from these stations are usually more expensive than those heading to the 4 main bus stations. Most buses stop at both stations. 
 Cárcel de Mujeres, Calzada Ignacio Zaragoza 3097, Colonia Santa Martha Acatitla, Istapalapa. Along the main road heading East from Mexico City, it serves buses heading to Puebla and points in-between. 
 Ciudad Azteca, Centro Comercial Mexipuerto, Corner of Avenida Central and De Los Guerrero, Colonia Ciudad Azteca 3ra Sección, Ecatepec de Morelos (Metro and Mexibús Ciudad Azteca). In the Northeast of the metropolitan area, it is used by many services to/from North and East Mexico. 
 Indios Verdes, Avenida Insurgentes Norte 211, Colonia Santa Isabel Tola, Gustavo A. Madero (Metro and Metrobús Indios Verdes). Most buses to/from Pachuca stop here. Usually more convenient by public transport than the North Bus Station. 
 Tepotzotlán, Autopista México-Queretaro 164, Colonia Cedros, Tepotzotlán. Just before the toll booth along the Mexico City-Querétaro highway, many buses heading North from Mexico City stop here. 
Caseta Chalco
Coapa
Ecatepec (Las Américas)
Ixtapaluca
Tlalnepantla
A list of long-distance bus companies is in the article Bus travel in Mexico.


=== By train ===


==== Ferrocarril Suburbano ====
The Ferrocarril Suburbano is a commuter rail system that connects downtown Mexico City with northern Mexico State municipalities. Service is provided on the Buenavista-Teotihuacan line (Blue), and the Buenavista-Cuauhtitlan line (Red). A third line (Green) connects Nezahualcyotl to Chalco. Communities served include Tultitlán, San Rafael, and Tlanepantla. Buses connect rail stations to nearby neighborhoods. Plans are underway to build a rail line connecting Ferrocarril Suburbano Line 1 with the AIFA/Santa Lucia Airport (NLU). Fares range from M$6.50 to M$15.50 (Jan 2023), depending on distance. You must buy a rechargeable fare card to ride the train and fare cards for the Metro or the Tren Ligero do not work with Ferrocarril Suburbano (you have to buy a separate card). A rechargeable card costs M$30, M$17 of which is an initial credit for fares. When you run out of money on your card, use the machines at rail stations to add funds.

1 Buenavista railway station (Estación Buenavista). This is an old intercity railway station and pretty to look at regardless of train service. It is used for Ferrocarril Suburbano.   (updated Sep 2020)


==== El Insurgente ====

El Insurgente is a new intercity passenger train between Toluca and Mexico City. The 57 km route includes four stations in Mexico State and three in Mexico City. The Metepec station in Toluca provides shuttle bus connections to the Toluca airport (TLC IATA). The stations in Mexico City include Vasco de Quiroga and Santa Fe (both growing areas that have been underserved by public transportation.) The rail line terminates at the Observatorio metro station which is also one of the city's four main bus terminals. The rail route includes a 4.6 km tunnel beneath the Sierra de las Cruces mountain. Most stations provide connections to local bus or tram services. The Vasco de Quiroga station will also connect to Cablebus route 3.
El Insurgente opened in September 2023 with service between stations in Mexico State. A one-way ticket costs M$15. Trains operate daily between 06:00 and 23:00. 
Stations in Mexico City include Santa Fe and Quiroga de Vasco (with connections to Cablebus route 3). The Observatorio station (with connections to Metro Line 1 and Line 12, and the Terminal de Autobuses Poniente) is expected to open in 2025.

8 Estacion Vasco de Quiroga, Nicolás Bravo 49, Industrias Militares de Sedena, Álvaro Obregón. Station for El Insurgente train. Connections to Cablebus line 3.    (updated Feb 2025)
9 Estacion Santa Fe, Prol. P.º de la Reforma, Lomas de Santa Fe. Station for El Insurgente train.    (updated Feb 2025)


==== Rail development ====
Two new passenger rail lines are under construction:

Tren Mexico-Pachuca - five stations in Mexico State and four in Hidalgo, The route begins at Buenaventura in Mexico City and ends in Pachuca. The train will include a station stop for Mexico City's AIFA airport (NLU). Construction began in early 2025 and it is expected to be operational in early 2027.
Tren Mexico-Queretaro - 225 km rail line with three main stations: Buenaventura in downtown Mexico City, San Juan del Rio, and Querétaro, construction began in 2025 and the train is expected to be operational in the first quarter of 2029.


== Get around ==

Mexico City is a huge place, but driving is definitely not a way to see it even if tourist attractions are scattered throughout the city. A good way to plan your trip is to stop by Guia Roji to identify the location of the "Colonias" (neighborhoods) you intend to visit. You may also try Google Maps, to find addresses and even look for directions.
Mexico City has several public transport alternatives. The city government operates the Metro and Metrobús bus rapid transit (BRT) system, which are cheap and reliable but can be very crowded during rush hour. It also operates a light rail line, RTP bus system and electric trolleybuses. There are also plenty of franchised private buses, minibuses and vans, known as peseros and combis, which are less reliable and safe but reach more destinations. In the metropolitan area, there is a commuter train line and the Mexibús bus rapid transit system, but most destinations are only served by private minibuses and vans. 
There are also thousands of taxis, now painted in white and magenta. Official taxis have a red box in the center lower area of their license plates that reads TAXI. Only use these taxis, sitio taxis or have a hotel call you a taxi for safety reasons. If you have a smartphone and internet access, the ridesharing services Uber and Cabify can also be used, with the added advantage that you can put your destination beforehand and pay with a credit card.
Google Maps and Apple Maps can plan routes using a car or the city-operated public transport (excluding private buses). There are at least two other websites available for planning trips within the city. Buscaturuta ("Busca Tu Ruta," or "Find Your Route"), which serves all of Mexico, uses a Google Maps interface and allows you to search with incomplete addresses. It will give you options for traveling by public transit, taxi, car, or bicycle.
Some mobile apps exist to help users navigate the public transportation system. Metroplex DF is one such option (iOS only).


=== By e-hailing ===
Uber, Cabify and Didi are available. Beat offers electric cars (Beat Zero) for a similar price to Uber, and Teslas for a higher fee. The app Yaxi allows you to order a safe regular taxi to your location.
E-hailing services are surprisingly cheap in Mexico City, given the time they may take with the traffic. A 50-minute trip may end up only costing 300 pesos. So when planning your transportation, keep in mind that e-hailing may be more affordable in Mexico City than you're used to.
Also keep in mind that with the heavy traffic in Mexico City, it is very common to wait ~10 minutes for a driver to arrive, even if they are not very far from you.


==== Warning regarding e-hailing scams / issues ====
You should be aware of a common e-hailing scam that can occur where the driver does not pick you up and continues without you.
This is an issue that can occur in many other locations but is common in Mexico City. If you are paying by card, you should enable any security features in Uber or other apps to have a PIN that you must give to the driver when they pick you up.
If you are paying by card without a PIN, often, the driver may mark that they have picked you up, and continue without you. In this case, you can not order another uber without first cancelling this ride, and Uber will not refund your money, but will tell you that in order to prevent situations like this, or where the driver picks up the wrong person by accident, you should have used a PIN.
This can be prevented by paying with cash, or by using the PIN feature when paying by card.
You may also notice that some rides where you're paying by cash, may be rejected by drivers who were looking to do this.


=== By metro ===
Moovit and Google Maps show you a way through the city. Both cover the buses and the metro trains. Moovit has more bus lines and bus stops covered.

The metro is relatively quick and efficient, especially as an alternative to taxis during rush hours when the streets are essentially parking lots. The metro trains run every couple of minutes, so if you just miss it, you won't have long to wait until another arrives. Operating hours are from 05:00 to 00:00 on weekdays (starts at 06:00 on Saturday and 07:00 on Sunday). A last train leaves every terminal station at midnight.
One trip with unlimited transfers within the metro system costs M$5 (Jan 2025). As of March 2025, tickets are no longer available for purchase or for use in the metro and the ticket machines have been removed. Thus, you must buy a multi-use rechargeable smart card for M$15, and load or reload it as needed. The fare is still M$5 per trip. It is not uncommon for small groups to share the same card, passing through the turnstiles and tapping the card reader each time. You may still see families and people who may not have a card at the turnstiles asking passerbys to allow them to use their card, in exchange for cash. These smart cards can be used in all of the public transit network, with the exception of private buses. As of 2025, most of the network also supports payment by contactless debit or credit card, though foreign cards may not be accepted.
The Metro is quite safe, but there are a few incidences of pickpocketing every day. Keep your belongings close to you; if you have bags, close them, keep them in sight and you won't have any problems.


==== Metro signs ====
Here are a few of the commonly-used Metro signs translated into English:

Taquilla - Ticket booth
Entrada - Entrance
Salida - Exit
No Pase - Do not enter. You'll still see many people passing through in order to walk less though.
Andenes - Train platforms
Correspondencia - Line transfer, marked with a "C" sign with the same outline as the metro station icons.
Dirección - Direction you are heading inside a line: one of the two terminal stations.


==== Further information ====
The Sistema de Transporte Colectivo, known as the Metro, is one of the largest and most patronized subway systems in the world, with 12 lines that measure more than 190 km (120 mi) and carry 4.4 million people every day. You'll quickly see how busy it is, particularly lines 1, 2 and 3 and during the morning (07:00-09:00) and afternoon (17:00-19:00) rush hours: trains are often filled to significantly over capacity, and sometimes it will be hot and uncomfortable. It can get loud in the trains due to the noise of the wheels and due to conversation, vendors or people blasting their music (see below).
Stations usually have food stalls inside and outside the entrances, and all have city-sponsored exhibits and artwork on display, so even if you don't have anywhere to go, the Metro is good for a look around and can be regarded as a tourist attraction in itself. If you missed the food stalls getting on the train, people selling all kinds of things are often available in the trains as well. Just don't count on them selling things you need when you need them. The Metro can be the quickest way to travel longer distances within the city - especially if your origin and departure points align with metro stops.
Although the Metro lacks informational signs in English, the system was designed with illiteracy in mind, so finding your way around should not be a problem. Lines are defined by number but also by a color, and that color runs as a thematic band across the entire station and along the entire route, so you always know what line you are on. Stations are identified by name but also by a pictorial icon that represents that area in some way.
Entire maps of the Metro system are posted around ticket booths and on platforms, but not always inside trains. Neighborhood maps around every station are also available near the ticket booths.
Some lines run through more tourist-related spots than others and will become very familiar to you after a while. Line 1 (pink) runs through many tourist hot spots, such as the Centro Histórico (Salto del Agua, Isabel la Católica and Pino Suárez), the Chapultepec Forest (Chapultepec), Condesa and Roma neighborhoods (Insurgentes and Sevilla) and the West (Observatorio) and East (San Lázaro) Bus Stations. Line 2 (blue) runs through the Centro Histórico (Allende, Zócalo and Bellas Artes) and reaches the South Bus Station (Tasqueña). Line 3 (green) runs near Coyoacán (Coyoacán and Miguel Ángel de Quevedo) and also near the University City (Copilco and Ciudad Universitaria).  If traveling to and from the airport, you'll want to use Line 5 (yellow) to connect to the Mexico City International Airport (Terminal Aérea), and not Boulevard Puerto Aéreo of line 1, which is 1 km away but is still colloquially called "Aeropuerto". The North Bus station is also served by Line 5 at Autobuses del Norte. Line 6 (red) runs east–west through the north of the city and passes by the Basílica de Guadalupe (La Villa - Basílica). Line 7 (orange) runs through many touristic spots such as the Chapultepec Forest (Auditorio) and the Polanco neighborhood (Polanco). Line 8 (green) crosses the Centro Histórico north-south (Salto del Agua, San Juan de Letrán, Bellas Artes and Garibaldi). Line 9 (brown) runs near the Condesa neighborhood (Chilpancingo).
Each platform has a large sign indicating towards which direction that train heads. For example, if you are travelling on Line 1 from Insurgentes to Pino Suárez stations, you are heading in the direction of the Pantitlán terminus ("Dirección Pantitlán"). On your return trip, you would be heading in the direction of the Observatorio terminus ("Dirección Observatorio").
As you enter a Metro station, look for the ticket booth. You may buy a smart card at the ticket booths, by asking for a tarjeta. There may be a minimum amount for your initial balance.  To use the card, simply hold the card next to the white card reader at any turnstile.  The cost of a single fare will be deducted and the remaining balance will show on the card reader display.  You can ask for a recharge (recargar) at any ticket window to supplement your card's balance. If you don't speak Spanish, it might be easier to buy a card at the machines that can be found at a few major metro stations as well as at Metrobús and Tren Ligero stations, rather than in a Metro station ticket booth. Some machines only support recharging smart cards and do not sell them.
Once you have your card, it is time to go through the turnstiles. The stiles are clearly marked for exit or entry but if you are confused, follow the crowd. Put your card against the card reader above. Your remaining balance will be shown. Past the turnstiles, signs that tell you where to go depending on your direction within the line are usually clearly marked, as are signs that tell you where to transfer to a different line. There is no standard station layout, but they are all designed to facilitate vast amounts of human traffic, so following the crowd works well, as long as you double check the signs to make sure the crowd is taking you in the same direction.
On the platform, try to stand near the edge. During rush hours when it can get pretty crowded, there is sometimes a mad rush on and off the train.  Although for the most part people are respectful and usually let departing passengers off first, train doors are always threatening to close and that means you need to be moderately aggressive if you don't want to get left behind. If you're traveling in a group, this could mean having to travel separately.  At the ends of the platform, the train is usually less crowded, so you could wait there, but during rush hours some busier stations reserve those sections of platform exclusively for women and children for their safety. If this is the case, there will be a police officer blocking the way.
While on the train, you will see a steady stream of people walking through the carriages announcing their wares for sale or performing for money.  Act as if you are used to them (that is, ignore them, unless they need to pass you).
If the merchants weren't enough, the trains are usually crowded places throughout the day. It's considered good manners to offer your seat to the aged, pregnant or disabled, as all cars have clearly marked handicap seats. In keeping with the mad rush on and off the train, people will move toward the exits before the train stops, so let them through and feel free to do the same when you need to (a con permiso helps, but body language speaks the loudest here).
Women have complained of being groped on extremely crowded trains; this is not a problem on designated women's wagons, or any other time than rush hour. If theft or any other sort of harassment do occur, you can stop the train and attract the attention of the authorities by pulling on alarms near the doors, which are labeled señal de alarma.
When exiting, follow the crowd through signs marked Salida.  Many stations have multiple exits to different streets (or different sides of streets, marked with a cardinal direction) and should have posted road maps that show the immediate area with icons for banks, restaurants, parks and so forth.  Use these to orient yourself and figure out where you need to go. A good tip is to remember what side of the tracks you are on, these are marked on such maps with a straight line the color of the metro line you are traveling.


=== By bus ===

There are several kinds of buses. The fastest and nicest are the BRT (bus rapid transit) buses discussed in the next section, "Metrobus and Mexibus". Another good option for travelers are the full-sized buses operated by the Mexico City Government known as RTP and Ecobús. Regular RTP routes cost M$2 anywhere you go, while Express RTP routes cost M$4 and the Ecobús costs M$5. Most buses have coin boxes, in which case you should have the exact fare (or be willing to deposit more than your fare) and put the money in the box. If there isn't a coin box, give the money to the driver. RTP buses are orange and green, while Ecobús buses are all green.
Another kind of buses are known as microbuses or peseros. These buses are privately run and come in small and bigger sizes. Newer peseros look like regular buses but are painted in white and purple, while older ones are ominous looking and painted in green and grey. Smaller peseros cost M$4 for shorter trips, M$4.50 for 6–12 km trips and M$5 for trips longer than 12 km. Full-sized private buses are M$5 for shorter trips, and M$6 for longer trips.
All buses are supposed to stop at bus stops, but microbuses are usually willing to stop anywhere as long as there are no police nearby. In the inner city, bus stops are usually small bus shelters with metal seats. In other areas, they might be unmarked and you can reasonably assume that a bus will stop just before a big intersection. Routes are also very complex and flexible, so be sure to ask someone, perhaps the driver, if the bus even goes to your destination ("va a ...?"), before getting on. Also, though the locals hang off the sides and out the doors, it is generally not recommended for novices. Riding BRT and RTP buses is safer and more comfortable than the private franchised and smaller microbuses, which are more prone to robbery and often drive aggressively. All buses display signs on their windshields which tell major stops they make, so if you want to take a bus to a metro station, you can just wait for a bus that has a sign with an M followed by the station name.
Buses can be packed during rush hours, and you have to pay attention to your stops (buses make very short stops if there's just one person getting off, so be ready), but they are very practical when your route aligns with a large avenue. There's usually a button above or close to the rear door to signal that you're getting off; if there isn't one, it's not working, or you can't get to it, shouting Bajan! (pronounced "BAH-han") in a loud and desperate voice usually works. 


=== By Metrobús and Mexibús ===

The Metrobús is a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system that operates seven routes (líneas) in dedicated lanes along Insurgentes, Eje 4 Sur, Eje 1 Poniente (Cuauhtémoc/Vallejo), Eje 3 Oriente, Eje 5 Norte Avenues, and Ave Paseo de la Reforma. Line 1 is convenient for the Condesa/Roma area, Line 3 for Del Valle and the Centro Histórico and Line 4 has a route to/from the airport (with stops at terminals 1 and 2) that passes through the Centro Histórico. The Metrobús is safe but can be crowded. 
Most routes cost M$6 (Jan 2025) to ride, while buses to/from the airport cost M$30 (Nov 2021). In order to ride, you need a refillable smart card that must be bought in advance (M$16, including one fare). These cards can be used at the Metro and Tren Ligero as well. Lines 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 have enclosed stations with turnstiles where you pay. There are card vending machines at these stations. Lines 4 and 7 have regular bus stops and you pay when boarding the bus. Some stops have ticket machines but otherwise these can be bought/recharged at convenience stores along the route. If you are just arriving and want to take the Metrobús from the airport, you can buy the card at the 7-Eleven shops in both terminals.
The Metrobús has stops approximately every 500 m. Expect Line 1 to be crowded around the clock and other Lines to be crowded during rush hour, but it's a great way to move around very rapidly. There are branches in each route, buses that take multiple lines and buses that do not go all the way from terminal to terminal, so you must check the correct door to take the bus in your direction, as well as the bus' billboard before boarding to see which is the last stop they will visit. There are reserved boarding areas at the front of every bus (indicated on the platforms) for women, the handicapped and the elderly.
The Mexibús is a similar system covering areas of the State of Mexico (in the metropolitan area). There are 3 lines, all of which cost M$6 but use different smart cards. The Mexibús is reasonably safe, but pickpocketing and robbery do sometimes occur.


=== By trolleybus ===

Trolleybuses are operated by the Electric Transport Services. There are 15 trolley bus lines that spread around for more than 400 km. They usually do not get as crowded as regular buses, and they are quite comfortable and reliable. They have lower frequencies and can be a little slower than regular buses, since they are unable to change lanes as quickly. There is a flat fare of M$2 on most lines and M$4 on the Eje Central, Eje 2 Sur and Eje 7 Sur lines. You pay in a coin box and bus drivers do not give out change. For tourists, the Eje Central line (Line A) is useful to go between the North and South bus stations or between these stations and the Centro Histórico.


=== By light rail ===

The Tren Ligero consists of one single line that runs to Xochimilco, south of the city, from the Tasqueña Metro Station (Line 2, blue; often spelled as Taxqueña). For tourists, it is useful if you plan to visit Xochimilco, the Dolores Olmedo Museum, the Anahuacalli Museum, or the Azteca Stadium. You can use the same smart card as in the Metro and Metrobús, and new cards can be purchased at some stations along the line.


=== By Cablebus ===
The cablecar system is not intended for tourists but can be a fun experience and a way to get a bird's eye view of some neighborhoods that are not friendly to outsiders. A popular route starts from the metro station Indio Verdes. The ride until the first stop goes along a street avenue for about 7 minutes. Then the cable car passes a highway. After the second stop it only goes through a rather poor neighborhood with grey houses far and wide. It's not recommended to leave the cable car stations and stroll around due to safety. If you have never taken a cablecar inside a city, here is your chance. The price is M$7 (April 2022).


=== By taxi ===
There are more than 250,000 registered cabs in the city and they are one of the most efficient ways to get around. The prices are low, a fixed fee of about M$8.6 to get into the cab, and about M$1.14 per quarter kilometer or 45 seconds thereafter, for the normal taxis (taxi libre). The night rates, supposedly between 23:00 and 06:00 are about 20% higher. Some taxis "adjust" their meters to run more quickly, but in general, cab fare is cheap, and it's usually easy to find a taxi. At night, and in areas where there are few taxis, cab drivers will often not use the meter, but rather quote you a price before you get in. This price will often be high, however, you can haggle. They will tell you that their price is good because they are "safe". If you don't agree on the price, don't worry as another cab will come along.
Although safety has substantially improved, catching cabs in the street may be dangerous. Taxi robberies, so-called "express kidnappings", where the victim is robbed and then taken on a trip to various ATMs to max out their credit cards, do sometimes occur, but there are some general precautions that will minimize the risk:

Taxis have special license plates. The registration number starts with an "A", "B" or "M" followed by five digits. Base ("Sitio") taxis are safer. These plates are white and have a small green and red squares at the bottom corners.
The taxi license should be displayed inside the taxi; usually it is mounted somewhere above the windshield. Check that the photo of the driver on the license is of the actual driver. Make a point of looking at it.
Look for the meter. Without it, they will be more likely to rip you off. All taxis in Mexico city have meters.
If you are nervous, take sitio taxis only. These may be a bit more expensive, but they are well worth the expense.
If you are safety-conscious or require additional comfort, consider radio taxis, which can be called by phone, and are extremely reliable and safe, although a bit pricier than other taxis. Most restaurants, hotels, etc., have the number for radio taxis. Radio taxis will usually give you the price for the trip on the phone when you order them. Radio taxis charge more than regular taxis, but are available all night.  Hotel taxis will be significantly more expensive than site or radio taxis.
As with absolutely everything else, risks are greater at night. At night, radio taxis are recommended.
Mexico City is so large, and many street names so common that cab drivers are highly unlikely to know where to go when you give only a name or address of your destination. Always include either the name of the colonia or the district (i.e. "Zona Rosa"), as well as any nearby landmarks or cross streets. You will probably be asked to give directions throughout or at least near the tail end of the journey.
Unlike the United States and Canada, English is not widely spoken in Mexico, so if either your Spanish or your sense of direction is poor, carry a map and be prepared to point.
The two most common recommendations for a safe cab riding experience are to make sure you take an official cab, and to notify a person you trust of the license plate number of the cab you are riding.
Uber is also available.


=== By double-decker tourist bus ===

The Turibus is a sightseeing hop-in hop-off bus that is a good alternative to see the city if you don't have too much time. The one-day ticket costs M$140 Monday-Friday and M$165 Saturday-Sunday. Children are half-price. Your ticket is valid for all routes. Runs 365 days a year. Its main route includes the Zona Rosa, Chapultepec Park, Polanco, Condesa, Roma and the Historic Center. There are three secondary routes running South, West and North. The South route runs from Fuente de la Cibeles in Condesa to Coyoacan and Xochimilco. The West route (Circuito Polanco) runs between Polanco and Chapultepec. The North route (Circuito Basílica) goes to Tlatelolco and the Basilica de Guadalupe.
The new Capitalbus has a similar service. It has a central route that includes the Centro Histórico, Reforma and Polanco, as well as a route west to the Santa Fe business district, and a North route to the Basílica de Guadalupe and various churches. Tickets cost M$130 for 6 hours, M$140 for 24 hours Monday-Friday, M$180 for 24 hours (Saturday-Sunday) and M$250 for 48 hours. Buses have Wi-fi.


=== If you get lost ===
If you get absolutely lost and you are far away from your hotel, hop into a pesero (mini bus) or bus that takes you to a Metro station; most of them do. Look for the sign with the stylized metro "M" in the front window. From there and using the wall maps you can get back to a more familiar place. The Metro stops running around midnight-ish and if you get lost late at night, taking a taxi is probably your best bet.


=== By car ===
Driving around by car is the least advised way to visit the city due to the complicated road structure, generally reckless drivers, and the 5 million vehicles moving around the city. Traffic jams are almost omnipresent on weekdays, and driving from one end of the city to the other could take you between 2 and 4 hours at peak times. The condition of pavement in freeways such as Viaducto and Periférico is good, however in avenues, streets and roads varies from fair to poor since most streets have fissures, bumps and holes. Most are paved with asphalt and some used to be paved using concrete. Since the city grew without planned control, the street structure resembles a labyrinth in many areas. Also, traffic laws are complex and rarely followed, so driving should be left to only the most adventurous and/or foolhardy. Driving can turn into a really challenging experience if you don't know precisely where are you going. Google Maps and Apple Maps have good maps of the city.
Street parking (Estacionamiento in Spanish) is scarce around the city and practically nonexistent in crowded areas. Some areas of the city such as Zona Rosa, Chapultepec, Colonia Roma and Colonia Condesa have parking meters on the sidewalks which are free on certain days and hours (depending on the location). It is possible to park in other streets without meters but is likely there will be a "parking vendor" (Franelero in Spanish) which are not authorized by the city, but will "take care of your car". Some of these fellows will "charge" you when you arrive, the best advice is to pay if you want to return to find your car undamaged.
Hoy No Circula ("today you do not drive") is an important anti-traffic and anti-pollution program that all visitors including foreigners must take into consideration when driving anywhere in Mexico City or Mexico State. The law applies to all vehicles, including those with foreign plates. It limits vehicle circulation to certain hours during the day or certain days depending on the previous days' pollution levels, how new your car is, the last digit of your plate number (plates with all letters are automatically assigned a digit) and whether the car has passed the bi-yearly emission controls. Newer and electric vehicles (which are usually the case for rentals) have a 00 or 0 hologram sticker and are exempted from most regulations. The "no circula" driving restrictions apply between 05:00 and 22:00.
If your plate begins with...

5 or 6 - you cannot drive on Mondays
7 or 8 - you cannot drive on Tuesdays
3 or 4 - you cannot drive on Wednesdays
1 or 2 - you cannot drive on Thursdays
9 or 0 - you cannot drive on Fridays
If you rent a car in Mexico City or Mexico State, check the window stickers. If you have a hologram of 0, the car is exempt from "no circula" restrictions. If you have a hologram of 1, the car can not drive on the first and third Saturday in addition to the days restricted by the license plate number. If you have a hologram of 2, the car can not drive on any Saturday in addition to the days restricted by the license plate number.
If the "Hoy No Circula" policies seem complicated, don't drive.
You should take into consideration the following tips when driving: avenues have preference over streets and streets over closed streets. Continuous right turns even when traffic light red are not allowed from 2016. Seat belts are mandatory for all seats. Police generally drive with their lights on, but if you're stopped by a police car, it is likely they will try to get money out you. It is up to you if you accept to give a bribe, but never offer one directly. Fines are usually cheap and can be paid at banks, supermarkets and convenience stores.


=== By bike ===
Cycling in most parts of Mexico City is difficult. Distances are long, many roads are wide, car drivers are aggressive and traffic can be hectic. However, the city government is making a serious effort to make cycling more attractive, installing dedicated cycle lanes along several main streets, including Reforma and around Chapultepec Park. Bicycle parking is available in/around most metro stations (such as Auditorio) and the central city. Cycling along dedicated lanes and smaller streets feels safe enough.
For more recreational cycling, the government closes off Reforma every Sunday morning for strollers, cyclists and other non-motorised transport. Free rental bikes can be obtained at kiosks in various parts of the city, such as along Reforma, if you provide two pieces of ID. One Sunday a month, there is a much longer route. The official website has a good map of the weekly and extended monthly route. Other nice places to cycle include Chapultepec Park and the cycling path installed on the former railway line to Cuernavaca, which passes through Polanco and Lomas and reaches all the way to the Morelos state limits. Bicycles can be taken in the Metro and Tren Ligero on Sundays.

 EcoBici. EcoBici is a bike sharing program in Mexico City. It has 444 stations and over 12000 bikes in central Mexico City, including the Centro Histórico, around Reforma, Condesa and Roma, Del Valle and Polanco. Newer bike stations allow you to purchase a 1-day (M$123), 3-day (M$245), 7-day (M$409) or 1-year (M$545) subscription directly with a credit card. You can take a bicycle from any station and make as many 45-minute trips as you want during that time. They will block M$1,500 from your credit card from the time you sign up and until 5 days after your subscription ends. There are reports that Ecobici are slow to release this deposit, often taking longer than 5 days. (updated Apr 2024)
 Bicigratis, Av Paseo de Reforma 115 (and other locations around Reforma/ Chapultepec/ Polanco/ Roma). Daily 10:30 - 17:30. Ride a bike around popular downtown areas for 3 hours, free of charge (requires ID to be left as collateral). Adult-size bikes only (no kids bikes available). Free. 
 Casa de Bici Chapultepec, Av Parque Lira s/n (Enter Chapultepec Park from San Miguel Chapultepec). Bike rental kiosk that has been a fixture of the park since 1921. Limited fleet of bikes, many older and well used. Childrens bikes available. 


=== By foot ===
Unfortunately, although public transport is frequent and reliable, taxis blanket the city, and Uber comes almost instantly, the traffic and crowds in the central neighborhoods (Chapultepec, Zona Rosa, Centro Historico) are so intense that at rush hour (most of the day) walking is about as fast as any of those options. The good news is that streets have sidewalks, the center is safe during the day, and you can be assured of finding something interesting on every block. The bad news is that this area is nearly 10 km across, so you may want to hop on a bus just to take the weight off your feet.


== See ==
Downtown Mexico City has been an urban area since the foundation of Tenochtitlán in 1325, and the city is filled with historical buildings and landmarks from every epoch since then. It is also known as the City of Palaces, because of the large number of stately buildings, especially in the Centro. Mexico City has three World Heritage Sites: the Centro Histórico and Xochimilco, the house of architect Luis Barragán and the University City campus of UNAM. In addition, Mexico is one of the cities with the largest number of museums in the world.


=== Landmarks ===

 Plaza de la Bellas Artes. Commonly known as Palace of Fine Arts or Cathedral of Arts in Mexico, host of art events and art exhibitions. 
 Plaza de la Constitución. Commonly known as Zócalo in the Centro Historico (Historic Downtown) is one of the largest squares in the world, surrounded by historic buildings, including the City Hall and the Cathedral. 
 Catedral Metropolitana de la Ciudad de México. Located next to El Zocalo in the city center. The biggest cathedral in the Americas. Containing many altars, its principal altar is made from solid gold. 
 Angel de la Independencia (El Angel). A monument in Reforma Avenue and Florencia Street, near Zona Rosa. This monument celebrates Mexico's independence in 1810. 
 Basílica de Guadalupe. Catholicism's holiest place in the Americas, and the destination of pilgrims from all over the world, especially during the yearly celebration on the 12th of December. Located at La Villa de Guadalupe, it is the shrine that guards the poncho of Juan Diego that contains the image of Our Lady of Guadalupe, and is in the northernmost part of the city. 
 Ciudad Universitaria. — The main campus of the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, the National Autonomous University of Mexico. Located on Insurgentes Sur Avenue, it is one of the world's largest universities, with more than 270,000 students every semester. In 2007 it was declared a  UNESCO World Heritage Site. 
 Coyoacán. Historic Colonial Arts district which was home to Frida Kahlo, Leon Trotsky, and Diego Rivera, among others. 
 Plaza Garibaldi-Mariachi. The square is surrounded by cafés and restaurants much favored by tourists, and in these and in the square itself groups of musicians play folk music. Most of these groups are "mariachis" from Jalisco, dressed in Charro costume and playing trumpets, violins, guitars and the guitarrón or bass guitar. Payment is expected for each song, but it is also possible to arrange for a longer performances. People set up lemonade stand style bars in the evening to sell you cheap cocktails while you listen. A visit to Mexico is not complete until you experience the fantastic Mariachi Bands, but the neighborhood is a bit sketchy. 
 Ciudadela crafts market. The Ciudadela is a Mexican crafts market where cultural groups from around Mexico distribute their crafts to other parts of the country and the world. 
 Alameda and Paseo de la Reforma. The Alameda is the main park in the Downtown area of Mexico City, Paseo de la Reforma ("Reform Avenue") is a 12 km long grand avenue in Mexico City. It was built for the Emperor Maximilian's wife in the 19th century. Its name commemorates the liberal reforms of Mexican President Benito Juarez. 
 Cineteca Nacional (National Film Archive). It was the first to screen art films, and is known for its forums, retrospectives and homages. It has four screening rooms, a video and a film library, as well as a cafeteria. 
 Torre Latinoamericana. Observation Deck hours: 09:00-22:00. For stunning views of the city. Its central location, height (183 m or 597 ft; 45 stories), and history make it one of Mexico City's most important landmarks. 
 Mexico City US National Cemetery, Virginia Fabregas 31 (Colonia San Rafael), ☏ +52 55 5546 0054. Daily 08:00-17:00, closed 25 Dec and 1 Jan. The cemetery is the final resting place for 750 unknown American soldiers lost during the Mexican-American War between 1846 and 1848. Another 813 Americans are also interred here. Free. (updated May 2016)


=== Parks ===
Mexico City is full of various plazas and parks scattered through every neighborhood, but the following are some of the biggest, prettiest, most interesting, or best-known.

Alameda Central (Metro Bellas Artes or Hidalgo) is the oldest urban park in Mexico City (1592) and the largest inside the Centro Histórico.
Chapultepec Park and Zoo (Metro Auditorio) is a large park in the middle of the city that hosts the city zoo, the Modern Art Museum, the Museum of Anthropology, the Children's Museum (Museo del Papalote), the Technology Museum, the Natural History Museum and the National Museum also known as Castillo de Chapultepec, the former residence of the Austrian Emperor Maximilian of Habsburg.
Xochimilco (Tren Ligero Xochimilco) is a vast system of waterways and flower gardens dating back to Aztec times in the south of the city where tourists can enjoy a trip in the "trajineras" (vividly-colored boats). Trajineras pass each other carrying Mariachi or marimba bands, and floating bars and taquerias. Xochimilco is the last remnant of how Mexico City looked when the Spanish arrived to Mexico City in 1521 and it was declared a world heritage site by UNESCO in 1987. A quieter alternative is to visit the Parque Ecológico Xochimilco, accessible by buses running along Periférico.
Plaza Garibaldi-Mariachi (Metro Garibaldi-Lagunilla) is surrounded by bars and restaurants that cater to Mariachi Band enthusiasts. It is where bands come to do public auditions outside, on weekend evenings, or to play for whoever may pay them. A visit to Mexico is not complete until you experience the fantastic Mariachi Bands. You can also find a great "pulqueria" here (a bar that sells pulque, an interesting fermented maguey cactus drink).
Parque Mexico and Parque España are two adjacent parks in the Colonia Condesa. Now they are popular for an evening stroll, and sometimes house outdoor exhibitions or concerts, and are surrounded by cool cafes and bars.
Viveros de Coyoacán (Metro Viveros) is a large expanse of greenery and trails that is still used as a nursery to grow trees for the city, but also a public park popular with joggers and amblers.
Many visitors to Mexico City are surprised to find that the city includes large tracts of open land intended to preserve some of the natural resources of the region. These parks offer natural scenery, historical landmarks, and recreational opportunities including hiking, mountain biking, and camping. Public transit is generally not a reliable way to reach these parks, but taxis or private drivers can get you there. Several Mexico national parks lie within the valley of Mexico, but two are particularly noteworthy for travelers to Mexico City:

Desierto de los Leones is a national Park entirely within the city limits of the Distrito Federal. It is home to cool mountain trails through stands of pine, is home to a variety of plant and animal life, and is known as the site of a historic Carmelite convent dating from the early 17th century.
Iztacchuatl-Popocateptl National Park: Look east from downtown Mexico City and the horizon is dominated by two snow-capped mountain peaks with smoke billowing from the cauldron of the still active Popo volcano. Known locally as Izta-Popo, these twin volcanoes are the centerpoint of a 172,000 hectare park that spans a range that crosses the border between Estado de Mexico and neighboring Puebla state.


==== Jacarandas ====

Each spring, the parks and gardens in Mexico City erupt in an explosion of purple as jacaranda trees blossom. The trees were planted in the 1920s and have welcomed the season annually for more than a century. Jacarandas are at their peak in early April and can be seen in Parque Alameda, Bosques de Chapultepec, and other green spaces throughout the city, but one of the most picturesque spots is Calle Concepción Beistegui, in the heart of Colonia Narvarte, where the purple flowering trees form an arch over the street.


=== Museums ===
Mexico is the city with the largest number of museums in the world, to name some of the most popular:

 National Museum of Anthropology. Chapultepec. One of the best museums worldwide over, it was built in late 1960s and designed by Pedro Ramírez Vázquez. Notice the huge, impressive fountain in the courtyard. It gathers the best collection of sculptures, jewels and handcrafts from ancient Mexican cultures, and could take many hours to see everything. They also have interesting international special exhibits. Guides are available outside the museum for about M$200 and may be helpful, especially if you don't read Spanish well. 
 Plaza de las Tres Culturas. In Tlatelolco has examples of modern, colonial, and pre-Columbian architecture, all around one square. 
 Museum of Modern Art. Chapultepec. Here you will find paintings from Frida Kahlo, Leonora Carrington and Remedios Varo, as well as a sculpture garden. 
 Dolores Olmedo Museum. Xochimilco. An art philanthropist left her former home, the grand Hacienda La Noria, as a museum featuring the works of her friend Diego Rivera. At least 137 of his works are displayed here, as are 25 paintings of Frida Kahlo. The premises also feature beautiful gardens full of peacocks and a weird species of Aztec dog. However, the museum is under renovation and is sched to reopen sometime in 2026. (updated Oct 2025)
 Fine Arts Palace Museum (Palacio de Bellas Artes). Centro. A concert hall and an arts center, it houses some of Mexico's finest murals and the Art Deco interior is worth seeing alone. 
 Museo Soumaya, ☏ +52 55 1103 9805. Mexico City/Polanco. A private museum and collection of many well-known European artists, including an extensive selection of works by Auguste Rodin. 
 Rufino Tamayo Museum. Chapultepec. Contains the works of Mexican painter, Rufino Tamayo. 
 José Luis Cuevas Museum. Centro. Opened in 1992 and is filled with about 1,000 paintings, drawings, and sculptures from notorious artist, Jose Cuevas. 
 National History Museum in Chapultepec's Castle. Chapultepec. The Museum's nineteen rooms contain, in addition to a collection of pre-Columbian material and reproductions of old manuscripts, a vast range of exhibits illustrating the history of Mexico since the Spanish conquest. 
 Papalote, children's Museum. Chapultepec. If you've got kids, they'll love it! Bright, colorful, and filled with educational experiences for children of all ages. 
 Universum (National University's Museum). Coyoacán. A science museum maintained by UNAM, the largest university in Latin America. Take some time to wander around the Campus. 
 Casa Mural Diego Rivera. Centro. Contains murals of acclaimed artist, Diego Rivera. 
 National Palace (Zocalo). Centro. You can see some impressive Diego Rivera frescoes. You'll need to carry some sort of ID in order to enter the building. 
 San Idelfonso Museum. Centro. There are some of Orozco's best frescoes. The temporary exhibitions are usually very good. 
 Franz Meyer Museum. Centro. Display the collections of Franz Mayer, it holds Mexico's largest decorative art collection and also hosts temporary exhibits in the fields of design and photography. 
 Mexico City's Museum. Centro. Great place to learn about Mexico City's eclectic history. 
 Templo Mayor Museum (Zocalo). Centro. Contains the ruins and last remnants of the Aztec empire. attached to the huge archeological site where the foundations of the temple were accidentally found in the 1970s. 
 San Carlos Museum. Centro. The San Carlos Museum holds some of Mexico's best paintings and exhibit 15th and 16th century paintings. 
 National Art Museum. Centro. The National Art Museum, houses a rich collection of Mexican art ranging from the 16th to the first half of the 20th centuries. 
 Frida Kahlo Museum. Coyoacán Also called Casa Azul, it is the former house of the painter since she was born to her death, and full of some of her works, and many of her personal artifacts. 
 Anahuacalli Museum. Coyoacán An impressive modern representation of Mayan architecture, it houses Diego Rivera’s collection of Aztec and other precolumbian cultures' sculptures. 
 Leon Trotsky Museum. Coyoacán This was the house where Trotsky lived in exile during the last 1.5 years of his life, and was murdered by one of Stalin's agents. Guided tours are provided by members of the Workers/ Revolutionary Party. 


=== Architecture ===
Mexico City has many stunning examples of architectural design, ranging from the country's oldest examples of colonial era architecture to the most cutting edge contemporary designs. 


==== Mexican architects ====

Some modern projects were designed by internationally famous architects, but many were also designed by architects trained and working in Mexico. Some of the most significant Mexican architects and iconic buildings in Mexico City that best represent their style are:

Juan O'Gorman - see the Casa Estudio Diego Rivera y Frida Kahlo, and the Bibliotec Central de UNAM with its startlingly complex mosaic mural
Luis Barragan - see the Casa Luis Barragan (a  UNESCO World Heritage Site), Casa Gilardi and the Torres de Satelite
Mario Pani - see the distinctive needle-point pyramid of Torre Insignia
Pedro Ramirez - see the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe
Fernando Romero - see the swoopy lines of the Museo Soumaya
Alberto Kalach - see the Biblioteca Jose Vasconcelos with its gravity-defying "floating stacks"


==== Colonial architecture ====

The entire Centro Historico is a treasure trove of Mexico's oldest buildings, many dating to the early 1500s. Most fascinating to students of architecture are the Metropolitan Cathedral, Casa de Azulejos, and Iturbide's Palace.


==== Art deco architecture ====
After the Mexican Revolution, a wave of optimism swept the country with a consequent building boom in Mexico City. Many new buildings were designed in the fashionable Art Deco architecture where entire neighborhoods that date from the 1920s to 1940s remain standing as models for future generations of architecture students. Art deco buildings are found throughout the city, but the Condesa and Roma neighborhoods are particularly noteworthy. Some of the best examples of Art Deco architecture include:

Edificio Nacional - built in 1932 and designed by Manual Ortiz with distinctive ziggurat setbacks on the upper levels
Museo de Artes Popular
Palacio de Bellas Artes - the interior detailing is particularly emblematic of Art deco design
Fronton Mexico - built in 1929 as an indoor venue for the sport of jai alai, the building was renovated in 2017, preserving its original art deco design


==== Contemporary architecture ====

Many buildings of the late 20th and early 21st centuries exhibit forms and details that often seem to be very large sculptures of contemporary artists. This is particularly true of svelte lines of the swoopy shaped Museo Soumaya (designed by architects Fernando Romero), and the bristling pointed roofline of the Museo Jumex (designed by British architect, David Chipperfield). These and several other contemporary designs can be seen in the Polanco neighborhood. One of the most intriguing examples of modern architecture is the Biblioteca Vasconcelos whose interior features the innovative "floating stacks" that seem to defy gravity.


== Do ==

As the world's 7th largest city, Mexico City offers something for everyone and for every budget.
Attractions in Mexico City focus less on lazing on the beach (there are no beaches in Mexico City!) and more on exploring the culture and urban culture of Mexico. The typical "must-see" sites for the foreign visitor are the sites of interest in and around Centro Historico and Chapultepec Park, a visit to the ruins of Teotihuacan in the outskirts of the city and probably a visit to Xochimilco, though there are many other things to see if you have time to really explore.


=== Itineraries ===
Traveling in Mexico City with children


=== Festivals and events ===
 Independence Day "Yell". In the evening of September 15, the President of the country (or the city mayor) salutes the crowds from the presidential balcony in the National Palace in the Constitution Square (Zocalo) and shouts the famous "Viva Mexico". The Zocalo (and the rest of the city) is decorated with ornaments and lights. This is an incredible expression of Mexican patriotism combined with a party mood. Expect big crowds with a big revelery. If you want smaller crowds, the squares at the center of every borough usually host similar celebrations. 
 Independence Parade. In the morning of September 16, there is a military parade that runs across Paseo de la Reforma, turns right at Juarez Avenue which later becomes Madero Street and ends at the Zocalo. 15,000 to 30,000 soldiers of the Mexican Army, Navy and Air Force march through the streets displaying its equipment and weapons. 
 Alebrijes Parade, Reforma to Zocalo. Alebrijes are brightly colored fanciful animal figures that are one of Mexico's most iconic pop art genres. In mid-October each year, enormous Alebrijes floats are created and a parade is held along Paseo de la Reforma and then on to the Zocalo. Pink polka-dotted pigs, Purple-winged dragons, orange dogs with spiked haircuts....these and more will march in the parade. After the parade, the giant Alebrijes will be placed in plazas and public spaces along Avenida Reforma for a 3-4 week period when the public can get up close to take their Instagram-ready selfies. 
 Day of the Dead. November 1–2. Mexico is one of the few countries in the world that celebrates this day (Dia de los Muertos), in which people go to the cemeteries to offer tribute to their departed ones, and decorate their graves with marigolds and bright colors. But this is not a sad celebration, on the contrary, people give family and friends candy treats in the shape of skulls and bones made of sugar and chocolate, as well as delicious bread called "Pan de Muerto". Don't miss a visit to a public market to find these delicacies, and watch out for the parades to and from the local cemeteries. In Mexico City, festivities include the lively Desfile de Día de Muertos (Day of the Dead Parade) which was inspired by the James Bond movie, Spectre. The parade includes people dressed as calaveras catrinas and huge colorful alebrije balloon as well as floats and marching bands. The parade route goes up Reforma and over to the Zocalo.  In Xochimilco, there are Day of the Dead parties on the canals and the already colorful trajineras are decked out in marigolds, skeletons and wildly fanciful themes. 
 Wise Men's day. January 6. Most Mexican kids receive toys from the Three Wise Men (Reyes Magos). This is a celebration that pays homage to the aforementioned Bible story. To celebrate it the family gather to eat the "Rosca de Reyes", a sort of bundt cake filled with plastic baby Jesus figures. Traditionally, people who get a figure in their slice of cake are expected to host a feast with tamales on Candelaria Day, February 2. The surroundings of the Alameda Central park are filled with costumed Reyes Magos on the days leading to January 6. 
 Art Week. early February (Feb. 3 - 9 in 2025). Each year in February, the world of contemporary art focuses on Mexico City's Art Week when parties, celebrations, special gallery exhibitions and myriad galas take place throughout the city. The event takes place at the same time as two other major art events, ZsONA MACO,  and Feria Material as well as numerous other events at galleries and museums throughout the city. 


=== Amusement parks ===
 Six Flags Mexico, Carretera Picacho al Ajusco #1500 Col. Héroes de Padierna (Southwest Mexico City). Largest amusement park in Latin America and the only Six Flags park in the region. The park is fitted with several million-dollar attractions, including Batman the Ride and not for the faint-hearted Medusa Roller Coaster. 
 Parque Aztlan, Chapultepec Park. Small urban amusement park in the heart of Chapultepec Park. Park entry is free but rides are paid for individually. Includes a giant Ferris wheel with 40 cabins, a large steel roller coaster, a carousel, and swings. 


=== Sports ===
If you're into sports, then Mexico City has plenty to offer. Soccer is the national sport and Mexicans go crazy about it. The city was host to two FIFA world cups, one in 1970 and the other in 1986. Another important sport in Mexico City is baseball, with many Mexicans playing professionally in the US. The city was the first in Latin America to host an Olympics, doing so in 1968; the majority of the city's sport facilities were built for that event.

 Estadio Azteca, Calzada de Tlalpan 3665 (Colonia Ursula Coapa: take the light rail to Xochimilco, get off at 'Estadio Azteca'). The largest stadium in Latin America is also the eighth biggest soccer stadium in the world. Built in 1961, it has an official capacity of 95,500 but frequently packing in several thousand more. It's the home of El Tri, the Mexico men's national team, and also home to two of the country's most famous soccer top-tier professional clubs: Club América and Cruz Azul. It also serves as venue for concerts and for occasional NFL regular-season games outside the United States. Prices for soccer usually start from M$200 up to M$600 for field level seats, but will be higher for national team matches. Beware of resellers, as they will often sell fake tickets. The stadium is undergoing renovations as it prepares to host the opening games of the 2026 FIFA World Cup. 
 Estadio Olimpico de Ciudad Universitaria, Avenida Insurgentes Sur, Ciudad Universitaria. Simply known as "Estadio de C.U." Located south of the city, this was the site of the 1968 Olympic opening ceremony. It was built with 72,000 seats but now holds 52,000. It is home to Club Universidad Nacional, more often known as Pumas, a soccer team operated by the National University (UNAM). The Pumas began as an amateur team of UNAM students, but are now a top-tier professional team in the Liga MX (though still owned and operated by the university). The stadium hosts several sports, mainly soccer and American football. To reach the stadium by public transport you can use the Metro and hop off at the Universidad station (Line 3, green), and hop in one of the free shuttle buses that run around the University circuit (only in weekdays). 
1 Estadio Alfredo Harp Helu, Ciudad Deportiva Magdalena Mixihuca (Southeast of el Centro). Modernistic baseball stadium built in 2019 for 20,000 cheering fans. It is a pleasantly intimate stadium with excellent sight lines from almost any seat in the house. The new stadium replaces Foro Sol as Mexico City's primary venue for professional baseball, and is home field for the Diablos de Mexico, a Mexican League professional team. The closest Metro station is Puebla or Cuidad Deportiva (both on line 9).    
2 Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez, Rio de la Piedad (Metro to Palacio de los Deportes), ☏ +52 5598 3316. Built in 1962, this 4.4 km track hosts Grand Prix Formula One and other motor racing such as NASCAR and A1-Grand Prix. The next Formula 1 races are 29 October to 1 November 2026.    (updated Nov 2025)
 Palacio de los Deportes (Viaducto Piedad and Rio Churubusco. Metro station: Ciudad Deportiva (Line 9)). Built for the 1968 Olympic Games, with a full capacity of 22,000, it hosts several indoor sports. Venue for several concerts, circus, expos. 
 Arena CDMX (Arena Ciudad de Mexico), Av. de las Granjas 800, Santa Barbara, Azcapotzalco (Take Metro line 6 to Ferreria), ☏ +52 5562357016. Opened in February 2012, with a full capacity of 22,300, Arena CDMX hosts several indoor sporting events and a wide range of popular music events, it is the home for annual NBA regular-season games played in Mexico, and also hosts home games of Capitanes de la Ciudad de México', the country'e representative in the NBA's minor league, the NBA G League. The venue hosts several concerts, shows, festivals, and expos. 
3 Hipodromo de las Americas, Av. Industria Militar, Colonia Lomas de Sotelo. Mexico City's home for horse racing, both thoroughbreds and quarter-horses. There are races nearly every day, the complex has different zones for different budgets including the original club-house and grandstand, with several restaurants and seating for 20,000 race fans.    


=== Lucha libre ===

Lucha libre (loosely translated as "free fighting") is the term for the style of professional wrestling that developed in Mexico. Due to its affordable and entertaining nature, it is a favorite pastime throughout the country. While similar to professional wrestling elsewhere in that the outcomes are predetermined, it developed quite differently from wrestling in the rest of the world. Wrestlers, known in Mexico as luchadores (female: luchadoras), tend to work much faster than those in the rest of North America, employing complex chains of moves, numerous high-flying maneuvers, and often-realistic submission holds. Also, rings in Mexico often lack the spring supports used in many other countries, which means that wrestlers typically don't take falls landing on their back as they often do elsewhere. More often than not, aerial moves involve wrestlers launching themselves outside of the ring at their opponents, allowing them to break the fall by tumbling. Finally, Mexican wrestling has far more weight classes than in other countries.
Another hallmark of lucha libre is the emphasis on tag team matches, which are most often made up of three-wrestler teams instead of the pairs that are common elsewhere. Rules for tag team matches are also significantly different.
Perhaps the most distinctive feature of lucha libre is the colorful masks worn by many performers. While the concept of the wrestling mask was borrowed from the U.S., it has become infused with the role that masks have long played in Mexican culture. Almost all luchadores will begin their careers wearing them, but most will lose their masks at some point in their careers. The biggest matches in lucha libre are luchas de apuestas ("betting fights"), in which wrestlers will bet their masks, hair, or even their careers on the outcomes.

 Arena México, Doctor Lavista 189, Colonia Doctores. The most famous venue for lucha libre.  You can enter through Avenida Chapultepec. It's very close to Zona Rosa and Avenida Insurgentes. 
 Arena Coliseo, República de Perú 77, Centro. Another famous venue for Lucha Libre and boxing. In the Centro Histórico. (updated Feb 2016)


=== Concerts ===
Many mexicans from around the country travel to Mexico City for concerts of national and international artists that don't perform in other parts of the country. The most prominent concert venues in the city are:

 Arena Ciudad de México. (updated Feb 2016)
 Auditorio Nacional. (updated Feb 2016)
Estadio GNP Seguros. Previously known as Foro Sol.
Palacio de los Deportes
 Bellas Artes. Opera, traditional Mexican and classical music. (updated Feb 2016)
 Circo Volador. Alternative music and metal. (updated Feb 2016)
 Ollin Yoliztli. Home to the Mexico City Symphonic Orchestra. (updated Feb 2016)
 Sala Nezahualcóyotl. Home to the UNAM Symphonic Orchestra (updated Feb 2016)
 Teatro Metropolitan. (updated Feb 2016)


=== Out of town trips ===
4 Desert of the Lions National Park.     – 28 km away from the city you can find yourself surrounded by trees in the middle of the forest. Take a hike from "La Venta" to "El Convento" or up to "Cruz Blanca" and eat some great quesadillas for lunch, you can't miss them since it the only structure on "Cruz Blanca". If you can find a mountain bike, it's one of the best places to ride.
5 Teotihuacan.     – 50 km. The ancient city of giant pre-Columbian pyramids.


== Learn ==

Like many other things in the country, Mexico City has the largest concentration of universities and colleges, starting with the UNAM, one of the finest in Latin America and the second oldest university in the American continent, founded in 1551.
Some of the most renowned universities in the city include:

Instituto Politecnico Nacional Public university dedicated mainly to engineering and research.
Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico Commonly known as UNAM, located in the south of the city mainly in Ciudad Universitaria, is a public university with a student population of more than 300,000.
Instituto Tecnologico de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey simply known as "Tec" is a branch of the famous private institute in Monterrey, having 3 campuses in the Greater Mexico City Area: one to the south in Tlalpan, one in the western financial district of Santa Fe and one to the north in the industrial corridor of Atizapán de Zaragoza-Tlalnepantla de Baz-Cuautitlán Izcalli.
El Colegio de Mexico, or Colmex is an exclusive graduate and teaching institution in the social sciences and humanities with a student to faculty ratio of roughly one to one. It contains a library with over 600,000 volumes and Large-scale inter-library exchange agreements are maintained with domestic as well as foreign universities. More than 60% of library users are external to El Colegio. About twenty percent of full-time students come from countries other than Mexico, and the majority of its graduates continue to do their PhD's at institutions like Harvard, Stanford, or Oxford
Universidad Panamericana Private catholic university that holds one of the best business schools in the world: IPADE located in the seventeenth century Hacienda de San Antonio Clavería.
Universidad Anahuac Recognized Private catholic university, aims on humanism and leadership.
Universidad Intercontinental Private catholic university of Guadalupe affiliation.
Universidad Iberoamericana Private university of Jesuit origin.
Instituto Tecnológico Autonomo de Mexico Private university.
Universidad Autonoma Metropolitana Commonly known as UAM, a public university with four campuses citywide.
Universidad Tecnológica de Mexico Private university.
Universidad del Valle de Mexico Private, a branch of Laureate International Universities.
Universidad de Las Américas The first private university in México
Universidad La Salle  Private catholic university.
You can learn Spanish in Mexico City as there are various schools offering courses for foreigners, for example:

Centro de Enseñanza de Lenguas Extranjeras Known as CELE, is a faculty of the National University (UNAM) and is probably the most renowned, located south of the city in Ciudad Universitaria.
Center for International Education, La Salle (CIEL)
Academia Hispano México, S.A. de C.V.
CIB Centro de Idiomas Bravo
Walk Spanish
Spanish School in Mexico City - Speak Like a Mexican


== Work ==
Mexico has very strict immigration laws. In order to work you should obtain a permit known as FM2 or FM3 which is very hard to get unless you're marrying a Mexican citizen or you are working for a multinational company. Most foreigners working without a permit perform jobs such as language teachers, waiters or salesmen. Others own a restaurant or shop. If you're working without a permit and an immigration officer finds out, it could mean a fine, deportation or spending some time in a detention facility of the National Immigration Institute.


== Buy ==
These ATMs have low withdrawal fees and are widespread throughout the city:
• banamex / citibanamex
• Santander
• Banorte
If there is none of them near you, check these ATMs with low fees:
• BanCoppel
• BanBajío
• Banco Azteca
• Banjercito
Users of Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank, Westpac and Scotiabank may withdraw money with no fees at any HSBC, Scotiabank, BanBajío, Inbursa, Banregio or Mifel ATM.
Mexico City is famous among Mexicans for its huge malls, streets like Presidente Mazaryk offer haute couture stores.


=== Shopping districts ===

 Polanco. Upscale shopping and dining district centered around Presidente Masaryk and Campos Eliseos streets. It also has several shopping malls. 
 Altavista. San Angel upscale shopping street. 
 Condesa. Trendy district full with alternative stores and boutiques. 
 Centro Historico, 20 de Noviembre St. The city's oldest shopping district, you can find almost anything here. The old department stores are clustered around 
 Pino Suarez. There is a lot of youth-minded fashion going on here. Most of it is a knock-off of something else but at such low prices who can complain? There is a very large indoor market near the metro stop (Pino Saurez, on the pink line) that has a ton of clothing, shoes, and food vendors. 


=== Shopping centers ===
American-style shopping malls appeared in Mexico City by the late 1960s and are now are spread all over the metropolitan area. You will find malls listed in the district articles.


=== Outlet malls ===
 Premium Outlets at Punta Norte. Northwest of Mexico City (State of Mexico) in the intersection of Periferico (Mexico Hwy #57) and the Chamapa La Venta highway, near Ciudad Satelite. You will need a taxi or a car to get there. 
 Las Plazas Outlet Lerma. Mexico- Toluca highway Km. 50 in the intersection with Calzada Cholula in the City of Lerma, near Toluca. You will need a car to get there. 


=== Arts and crafts ===
 Mercado de Curiosidades. In Centro Historico. 
 Mercado Insurgentes. In Zona Rosa. 
The National Fund for the Development of Arts and Crafts (Fonart), Avenida Patriotismo 691, in  Mixcoac, Avenida Paseo de la Reforma No. 116 in Colonia Juárez and Avenida Juarez 89 in Centro.


=== Flea and antique markets ===
Although street vendors can be found almost anywhere in Mexico City, the following are more "formal" flea markets selling handcrafts, furniture and antiques.

 Bazar del Sábado. In San Angel. Every Saturday, artists show and sell their paintings in a beautiful, cobblestoned zone of the city. There are also stores where they sell handcrafts. 
 Mercado de Artesanias. In Coyoacan on Saturdays, featuring handicrafts from all over the country, and classes for kids. 
 Plaza del Angel. In Zona Rosa, Calle Londres (metro station Insurgentes). Mostly expensive antique shops, the famous Sunday collectibles market has nearly vanished. 
 Mercado de Alvaro Obregon. In Colonia Roma 
 Sunday art market in the Monumento a la Madre. 
 Tianguis Cultural del Chopo. The main flea market for the counterculture in Mexico City. Along Aldama Street between Sol and Luna. Metro Station Buenavista. 
 Mercado de Antiguedades de Cuauhtemoc. Near Centro Historico (metro station Cuauhtemoc), every Saturday 9AM-5PM. 
 La Lagunilla and Tepito. Near Centro Historico (metro stations Lagunilla and Garibaldi). La Lagunilla has some of the best antiques, and is a maze of interesting thing, although it is a high crime area with 317 reported robberies in 2006. Tepito is more for pirated CDs, stolen things, and knock-offs.  This area is huge and it's very easy to get lost.  Shopkeepers are mostly friendly and will point you toward the nearest Metro station. For safety, visitors to this market should dress down, go with someone else, and arrive early in the day when it's less crowded. If you don't speak Spanish it's probably better to stay away. The collectibles market takes place every Sunday from 9AM, mainly along Paseo de la Reforma at intersection with Allende. 


=== Supermarkets ===
You may want to buy groceries and food at any of the hundreds of supermarkets. You can use Google Maps or the store locators at their websites to find one close to you. These are some of the most common:

 Chedraui (Chedraui Selecto, Supercito, Supercito Selecto). Open all week: 07:00-23:00. Mexican owned supermarket, offers you a wide variety of groceries, beers and spirits, beauty and personal care items. They offer in store pickup or delivery. (updated Jun 2025) Some stores offer kosher section.
The high-end City Market, small Sumesa and large Mega supermarkets. Sumesa has several locations around the Roma and Condesa. Owned by Comercial Mexicana.
 Soriana. If you're staying in the Centro Histórico, a useful central one is inside the Forum Buenavista shopping mall, reachable by Metro Station Buenavista. From Roma and Condesa, you can easily reach the one inside the Paruqe Delta shopping mall (Metro Centro Médico). 
 Wal-Mart. Also owned by them are the high-end Superama and discount-store Bodega Aurrerá supermarkets. Several throughout the city, including one near the airport. Stock just about everything, much like the supercenters found in the US. An easily accessible one is right next to the Nativitas Metro station (Line 2) on the west side of the Calzada de Tlalpan. Exit the Metro on the west side (toward Calle Lago Pte.) and make a left as you exit the station. The first thing on your left, just next to the station building, is the ramp going up to the Wal-Mart entrance. Visible from the train, impossible to miss. 


=== Ethnic grocery stores ===
For generally hard-to-find ingredients, such as vegetables and spices that are unusual in Mexico, try the Mercado de San Juan (Ernesto Pugibet street, Salto del Agua metro station). You can even find exotic meats here, such as iguana, alligator, ostrich, and foie gras. Go to the cheese stand at the center of the market, and ask for a sample— the friendly owner will give you bread, wine, and samples of dozens of different kinds of cheese.


==== Korean ====
 Supermercado Seul (Florencia Avenue and Hamburgo Street, Zona Rosa). 
 Seoul Market (Hamburgo 206, Zona Rosa). 
 Uri Market (Londres 234, Zona Rosa). 


==== Japanese ====
 Mikasa (San Luis Potosí 170, get from Insurgentes Sur Avenue, between Medellín and Monterrey). Lots of Japanese food ingredients, candy and drinks 
 Kokeshi (Amores 1529, Colonia del Valle (between Parroquia street and Felix Cuevas Avenue (Eje 7)), ☏ +52 5534 7131. Mostly Japanese food stuff but they also sell other Asian foods. They also sell Japanese dinnerware. 


==== Asian ====
 Super Kise (Division del Norte 2515, Del Carmen, Coyoacan). South of the city, they sell Korean, Chinese and Japanese groceries. 


==== Kosher ====
Many food products in Mexico including milk are kosher compliant. If you're looking for specific products, try some stores in the Polanco neighborhood. At some Chedraui branches you will find kosher departments, especially the ones in Polanco, Tecamachalco, Santa Fe and Interlomas neighborhoods.


== Eat ==
Although it is easy to assume that Mexico City is the world capital of tacos, you can find almost any kind of food in this city. There are regional specialties from all over Mexico as well as international cuisine, including Japanese, Chinese, French, Polish, Italian, Argentinean, Belgian, Irish, you name it. You find specific restaurants in the district articles of Mexico City. The main restaurant areas are located in Polanco, Condesa, Centro, Zona Rosa, along Avenida Insurgentes from Viaducto to Copilco and more recently Santa Fe.
There are several Mexican chain family restaurants that can be assumed to be safe and similar no matter where you are, including Vips, Lyni's, Toks, and the more traditional Sanborns, all reminiscent of Denny's in the United States. They are uniformly good but never excellent. If you're on a budget, you can also try one of the myriad comida corrida (set menu) restaurants, frequented by many office workers. Some of these offer very good food, are usually safe, and should range between M$70-110 (March 2022).
Perhaps the most ubiquitous type of food almost anywhere in Mexico city are fast food outlets, located on the ground floor  of a street-facing building, or puestos, street stands located on a sidewalk or almost anywhere there is room. Most of these serve the usual tacos or tortas (filled bread rolls similar to a sub or sandwich), and they can be very cheap. Hygiene varies from good to abysmal, so eat at a place that has plenty of people.
If you want to stuff your face with lots of real Mexican food at cheap prices then head over to a market, such as Mercado La Merced (the former central market, located on the pink line of the subway at the stop "Merced"). There are several restaurants as well as stands serving up some delicious food. Huaraches, which are something like giant tortillas with different toppings/fillings, are popular here, as are alambres. Another superb market is located a stone's throw from the Salto del Agua metro stop; Mercado San Juan Arcos de Belem. It is full of food stalls offering all the Mexican favourites, but find the one opposite the small bakers, which is located by one of the rear entrances on Calle Delicias, which serves the Torta Cubana. The people running it are amazingly welcoming and the food, especially the Cubana, is excellent.
If you want something safe and boring, most American fast food chains have franchises here.  You'll see McDonald's, Burger King, KFC, Pizza Hut, Papa John's Pizza, Domino's Pizza, TGI Friday's, Chili's, Dairy Queen, Subway, and yes, Starbucks. These are all fairly affordable.
El Globo, a French-style bakery, has locations throughout the city selling both French and traditional Mexican pastries, like orejas (little ears), éclairs, empanadas, and rosca during New Year's. It can't be beat for a quick snack or bagful of pastries to eat later.
Asian food restaurants are abundant, and the quality is good, and caters from cheap Chinese cafeterias to expensive and very good Japanese food. Korean, Japanese and Chinese are most common cuisines in Mexico City, while Indian, Thai and Indonesian can be harder to find. Most sushi places, however, put far too much rice on their sushi rolls and not enough fish.
Vegetarian (vegetariano in Spanish) alternatives are commonly available at larger restaurants, but don't expect much from street vendors. The magic phrases, for vegetarians or vegans, are "sin pollo" (no chicken), "sin carne" (no meat), "sin huevo" (no eggs) and "sin queso" (no cheese). If you can communicate this and then gesticulate to the menu, the waiter normally will give you suggestions. In regular restaurants, they will even try to edit an existing dish for you. Just make sure you are clear. Chiles Rellenos are usually filled with meat, but different fillings are a definite standard in any vegetarian restaurant.


=== Restaurant basics ===
Tips— Tipping (propina in Spanish) is expected, with 10% the standard for decent service at all sit-down restaurants. You can tip more for very good service (15%), or tip less or not at all for poor service. In some establishments the tip is included in the final bill, so it is recommended to review every ticket carefully. It is also customary to tip the waiters, valets, gas dispensers, bellboys and other service providers. Leaving no tip at all is frowned upon.
In Mexico, there is no difference in prices if you sit inside or outside, it is the same if you eat at the bar or sit at a table.


=== Don't leave without trying ===
Tacos al pastor
Cecina Adobada
Tacos de tripa
Gringas
Enchiladas Suizas
Enchiladas de mole
Pozole
Quesadillas
Sopes
Tortas
Sopa de tortilla
Chilaquiles
Huevos Rancheros
Arrachera
Micheladas
Huaraches
Alambres
Tacos de suadero
Tacos de canasta
Enfrijoladas
Tacos de barbacoa
Migas
Agua de Jamaica
Pambazos
For a quick breakfast you can always try a tamal (steamed corn dough with chicken or pork) bought on the street or specialized shops, accompanied by a cup of atole (hot chocolate corn starch drink), which is the breakfast of the humble on their way to work. They are often in the form of tortas de tamal.


== Drink ==
In Mexico City you have an almost endless choice of options to party. Traveling by yourself at night in certain areas of Mexico City is not a good idea, especially in Plaza Garibaldi, where pickpocketers are ever ready to relieve you of your unguarded cash. One of the ways you can check out the night life safely is by doing a Night Club Tour. These tours will typically take you to a few clubs and include transportation. Mexicans are for the most part very friendly and enjoy socializing.
The typical Mexican place to go to drink is the cantina, a bar where food is usually free, and you pay for drinks (exact policies and minimums vary). Cantinas serve a wide range of Mexican and foreign drinks, with prices usually reasonable compared to prices in the US, and you'll be continually served various Mexican foods, such as tacos (you should ask for 'Botana'). If your tolerance for Mexican music (mariachi or otherwise) and lots of noise is low however, this may not be your kind of place. Cantinas are open moderately late, usually past midnight at the very least. However some cantinas, like La Victoria, near the Plaza Garibaldi, are also open at midday for lunch.
A lower-end traditional option is going to a pulquería, where you can drink pulque, a fermented agave drink that was once sacred to the Aztecs. After being on a steep decline for decades, many are finding a new surge in popularity with young people. They can be found in the Centro Histórico and around Xochimilco. If you don't like pulque, they usually serve beer as well.
Many bars play a combination of Spanish and English-language rock, electronic music, and some Latin/Caribbean music. These bars tend to close around 3-4AM.
Club music mainly falls into three main categories, pop, rock and electronic music. The pop places generally play what's on the music charts, Latin pop, and sometimes traditional Mexican music, and are frequented by a younger (sometimes very young) audience, and are often more upper class. The rock places play rock in the wide sense, in English and Spanish. Most people are at least over 18 in these places. The electronica clubs, which attract everyone from Mexico City's large subculture of ravers and electronica fans, of all ages. Most clubs close late, 3-4AM at the earliest, and some are open until 7AM or 8AM.
The best bet used to be the Zona Rosa, which has a large number of street bars with rock bands playing and a large selection of clubs, especially strip clubs and gay bars. South of Zona Rosa you can find the Condesa and Roma areas, with many options of bars and restaurants. Another good area is Polanco, particularly a street called Mazaryk, where you'll find plenty of good clubs but it is best to make a reservation. Republica, La Santa or Guilt (gay club) are posh and exclusive clubs on that street. Be forewarned - entrance is judged on appearance and to get a table a minimum 2-bottle service is required, unless it's a slow night [min. US$80 per bottle]. Posh and upper scale night clubs can be found in the Lomas area, particularly the Hyde, Sense and Disco Lomas Clubs, but be warned some of these could be extremely expensive, where the cover charge could range from 250 pesos upwards and bottles start at US$130. In addition, getting in could very difficult, as these are the most exclusive in town. There are also exclusive gay clubs in that area with the same characteristics: Envy night club on Palmas 500 and Made nightclub on Chapultepec next to the lake and the restaurant El Lago Chapultepec.
The other common Mexican-style thing to do when going out is to go dancing, usually to salsa, meringue, rumba, mambo, son, or other Caribbean/Latin music. This is considerably more fun if you're a somewhat competent dancer, but even complete beginners who don't mind making fools of themselves will likely enjoy it. Most dance places close late, 3-4AM is common.
The legal drinking age is 18. It is illegal to consume alcohol in public ("open container").  This is strictly enforced and the penalty is at least 24 hours in jail.
Take an identification card such as a copy of your passport.


== Sleep ==

The city has more than 3,000 hotels in all price ranges. Details about individual properties are in the various District articles. 

Budget Hotels: Look in the Centro Histórico where you will find myriad hostels and budget hotels rich in character and charm. Standouts include the Hostel Mexico City, the Casa de los Amigos, and the Hotel MX chain which has several low-priced properties to choose from.
Moderate Hotels: Zona Rosa is a tourist haven with mid-range prices and good amenities at places like the Galerias Plaza. A number of stately older hotels along Paseo de la Reforma leading towards Centro Histórico offer character and affordability. A good value in this area is the Barcelo Mexico Reforma.
Splurge Hotels: Look in the Polanco district, where high-end hotels thrive (along with trendy restaurants and clubs, upscale shopping and elegant older homes). Chapultepec has several modern high-rise hotels by international chains like JW Marriott, Fiesta Americana and St Regis. The Marquis Reforma is a good bet here.
Boutique Hotels: Small hotels that deliver charming local character, preserve historical integrity, and provide personal service are found in many parts of Mexico City, particularly in Condesa and Roma and Polanco.


== Connect ==


=== Phone ===
If someone is calling you the country code is +52 then the area code is 55 then the 8 digit phone number. For a mobile phone, you might need to add a 1 between the +52 and 55. If you want to make a long-distance call in Mexico from a landline, you should dial the prefix 01 for national calls followed by the area code. From a mobile phone, start from the area code. If you are making an international long-distance call, you must dial 00 followed by the country code, for example, if you're calling the U.S. you should dial 00+1 and the area code, if you're calling the U.K, dial 00+44 and the area code, and so on.
If you want to use your cellular phone you can get your phone unlocked before you go. When you arrive in Mexico City, you can purchase a Telcel or Movistar SIM card, locally known as a "chip". This will get you a Mexican cell phone number. Remember this is a prepaid cellular option. You get free incoming calls. People calling you from long distance will need to dial in this format: +52 1 plus the area code 8 or 7 digit phone number. Mexico city (55), Guadalajara (33) and Monterrey (81) have 8-digit numbers, and 2 digit area codes.  The rest of the country has 7-digit numbers and 3-digit area codes. There are no long-distance charges within the country.
Calling from a Mexican phone (either land or mobile) to a Mexican cell phone is called ¨El Que Llama Paga¨ meaning only the person making the call pays for the air time. From a landline, you should dial the 044 prefix before the 10-digit number composed of the area code and the mobile number to be dialled, such as 044 55 12345678. From a mobile phone, just start from the area code.
Another option is to buy a prepaid Mexican phone kit, they frequently include more air time worth than the kit actually costs, air time is called ¨Tiempo Aire¨. For Telcel these kits are called ¨Amigo Kit¨ for Movistar they are called ¨Movistar Prepago¨ and for Iusacell ¨Viva Kit¨ you can just keep the phone as a spare for whenever you are in Mexico; there are no costs in between uses. These kits can be purchased at the thousands of mobile phone dealerships, or at OXXO convenience stores, and even supermarkets.


=== Mobile telephones ===


==== Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) ====
There are three consumer mobile network operators in Mexico:

Telcel is the largest network with the most extensive coverage in the country, using 3.5G, 3G and GSM (HSPA+, HSDPA & EDGE), 4G LTE and 5G networks.
Movistar offers 3G, 3.5G, 4G LTE networks with good coverage in most of the country
AT&T Mexico (previously Iusacell and Nextel Mexico) operates 3G UMTS, 4G LTE, and 5G NR networks with coverage available in cities and most large towns, covering 90% of the country.


==== Mobile Virtual Network Operators (MVNOs) ====
Mobile phone service is also available from MVNOs that operate on Telcel, Movistar, and AT&T's physical network infrastructure. MVNO plans can be less expensive than those offered by the MNOs or have shorter (i.e. daily) terms which may be well suited to some travelers. Mexican MVNOs include Unefon on the AT&T network,  Freedompop on the Telcel network, and Virgin Mobile, Flash Mobile, Weex, Cierto, and Maz Tiempo on the Movistar network.


==== Roaming ====
Most international travelers who choose to use the international roaming service offered by their carriers will roam on the Telcel network. AT&T subscribers from the United States will roam on AT&T Mexico, with Telcel as a fallback.
Check the roaming rates with the local operator for calling from your cell phone. It is recommended to buy a phone card available at self-service stores, magazine stands, hotels, travel agencies and at the airport. To make a long-distance call follow these steps:

To dial to a phone inside Mexico: 01 + area code + number
To dial to a local cell phone: 044 + area code + number
To dial to a cell phone from another state of the Mexican Republic: 045 + area code + number
To dial to the United States and Canada: 001 + area code + number
To dial to any other country: 00 + country code + city code + numberLong distance calls can receive the assistance of an operator by dialing 020 from a local phone or 090 from an international one.
To obtain more information from a bilingual operator dial 090.


=== Internet ===
Mexico City has good access to the internet. There are some internet cafes throughout the city, many of them in Zona Rosa, but their number is rapidly dwindling as many people now have internet access on their smartphones. Price vary from M$10-20 an hour. Look for the word 'Cyber' or 'CiberCafe' in order to find a place with internet access.
Free hot spots for wi-fi connection to the internet are available in several places around the city, particularly in public squares, along Reforma, and inside shopping malls, cafés and restaurants. Other hot spots around the city (such as at the airport and Sanborns restaurants) are not free, usually operated by the Mexican phone company Telmex through their Internet division Prodigy Móvil. In order to be able to connect in those places, the user must be subscribed to the service, or buy a prepaid card known as "Tarjeta Multifon"; visitors coming from the US can access the service using their AT&T or T-Mobile Internet accounts. Cards can be bought at the Sanborns restaurant chain, Telmex stores and many stores that offer telephony related products.


=== Radio ===
There are no full-time English spoken radio stations in Mexico, however these are a few options to listen:

Imagen 90.5 FM Features a twice-a-day English news program at 05:30 and 23:00 with a summary of the most important news around the globe.
Ibero 90.9 FM University radio station that plays mainly indie-rock but also has cultural programs.
Alfa 91.3 FM Broadcasts English language hit pop music.
Beat 100.9 FM Electronic music station.
Mix 106.5 FM Hits in English from the 1980s, 1990s, and current pop/rock music.
Universal 92.1 FM Old hits in English (1970s, 1980s).


=== Newspapers ===
You won't find newspapers in English or other foreign languages in regular newsstands, however, you can find many at any Sanborns store. Many U.S. newspapers have subscriptions available in Mexico, including the Wall Street Journal, Today, the New York Times and the Miami Herald.
Almost all national newspapers are based in Mexico City and have local news. Some of the most read newspapers include:

El Universal National daily based in Mexico City. The online version includes a good English section.
Reforma Most important local daily. Requires a subscription to read online.
La Jornada The most important left-leaning daily, with a good cultural section.
Milenio
Excélsior
La Crónica
La Prensa
Free newspapers are often given away at intersections and metro stations, most commonly Publimetro.


== Stay safe ==
Despite its reputation, travel in Mexico City is generally safe and most people find it surprisingly non-threatening. Areas around the historic center and other places where tourists usually go are generally well-lit and patrolled in the early evening. Much of your travel within the city will be done via public transportation or walking. Mexico City is an immensely crowded place, and as with any major metropolitan area, it is advised to be aware of your surroundings.
Do not show money in front of others as this generally attracts pickpockets. Protect your personal information, such as your ATM PIN when entering it at an ATM or bank terminal. When paying at a restaurant, it's best if you don't let your card be taken away but instead ask for the terminal to be brought to you or go where it is located.
Do not leave anything of value visible from your car window, always use the trunk, even things that could be considered to hold something of value (for example, an empty gift box) will attract unwanted attention to your car and might prompt a broken window.
Plan ahead, and know where you are going and how you will arrive. Most people in Mexico City are quite hospitable and some will speak English, and people who work for hotels and other hospitality-oriented businesses will always help. This will help in avoiding confusion, becoming lost or stranded. Also, you can ask a local for advice to get somewhere, though you might need basic Spanish to do this. In the Polanco, Sante Fe and Lomas districts, some police officers and many business people and younger children speak English, as it is very common to learn it in school.
The least safe places where tourists often go are around the north part of the Centro Historico, such as around Garibaldi square. Be extra vigilant if you go there at night. There is a detailed crime map based on official statistics.
To summarize:

Avoid ostentation: do not wear jewelry or eye-catching accessories when going out.
Watch your wallet, cell phone, or any electronic equipment, especially in public and crowded places.
Carry just the money you need for the daily expenses and a credit card. At any ATM you can get some cash.
Take an official identification with you or a copy of it.
Avoid lonely and dark places.
Get a taxi from a taxi base, or use a mobility app like Uber or Cabify, both available in Mexico City. Don't catch taxis on the street.'
Request a ticket or commercial invoice as proof of your purchases. If you have any problem related to purchases, services or bills, you may call the Federal Consumer Attorney (Procuraduría Federal del Consumidor, PROFECO) at +52(55)52111723 (in Mexico City) and at 01 800 468 8722, or send an email at asesoria@profeco.gob.mx. To make a complaint from your residence country, you may also email the unit of foreign travelers: extranjeros@profeco.gob.mx.


=== Football ===
Mexicans are passionate about their football (soccer), and the local Club América has a very heated rivalry with Guadalajara-based Chivas. Do not wear Chivas jerseys while you are in Mexico City, especially on match days, unless you want to draw unwanted attention from local fans.


=== Safety at public transport ===
There are pickpockets in Mexico City. Purses and bulky, full back pockets are quite attractive. Do not keep your passports, money, identification, and other important items hanging out for someone to steal. Place items in a hotel safe, or tuck them away inside your clothes. A money belt might be a good option. The Metro or Subway system can get extremely crowded, which creates opportunities for pickpockets on cars that are often standing room only.


==== Taxi ====
Taxi robberies, so-called "express kidnappings", where the victim is robbed and then taken on a trip to various ATMs to max out their credit cards, do occur, although safety in the city has improved. 95% of total kidnapping victims are nationals, so your odds of being taken are very slim, they are not targeting strangers, yet you should always use your common sense.
The two most common recommendations for a safe cab riding experience are to make sure you take an official cab, and to notify a person you trust of the license plate number of the cab you are riding.


==== Metro ====
Well organized bands of pickpocketers are operating in the most common Mexico City Metro lines, most of which are close to touristic spots. One of the most common methods of pickpocketing in addition to the thefts inside the wagons is work in teams of 4 or 5 persons that push the victims into the doors trying to emulate a fake crowd. The victim tries to enter or exit the wagon and the thefts take advantage of this deliberated movement of distraction to extract mainly phones or wallets that are inside the pockets of the victims and it gives to a third person inside or outside the wagon that escapes with the objects. In case of pickpocketing the method of warning to the police is pushing the "alarm signal" red lever (warning sign) close to the doors. Take in consideration that if the thefts are discovered they will argue violently in their favor to the police elements and will ask for a revision of all their belongings, knowing that they give the objects to other accomplice that hurried from the station and there is no evidence of theft, one of the conditions that the police will ask to begin a formal detention and prosecution. The most common stolen objects are cellphones, specially high end-models. Stay safe keeping your cellphone and wallet inside a security bag or money belt with zippers and avoid enter the wagons into the middle of the platform where are more common find crowds at the doors.


==== Buses and trolleys ====
While the most tourist areas are safe and the areas with more incidents are outside them, buses are stolen by armed robbers. In case this happens do not try to resist, give your belongings (cell phones and money), do not make violent movements and do not try to look at the thieves. Murders have been reported by people who do it.
Also be careful of pick-pocketing which is reported to happen especially around line B of the subway.
Violent robberies on trolleybuses or M1 buses (public transport of Mexico City Government) are not common at all.


=== Police officers ===
Police officers in Mexico get paid a third of what New York City police officers make, and some rely on bribes and corruption to make more money (however, never offer a bribe first since not all officers will want or accept them). Paying bribes supports systematic corruption that impoverishes the country and weakens the rule of law, so if you care about that, adamantly reject bribery and ask for their badge number, they will generally leave you alone. The historic center and other major sites often have specially trained tourist police that speak English or other foreign languages and are more helpful than ordinary transit cops.
The Mexico City Government has opened a specialized prosecution office (Ministerio Público in Spanish) for foreigners that find themselves affected by robberies or other crime situations. It is in Victoria Street 76, Centro Historico. Multilingual staff are available.


=== Air pollution ===

Although the smog layer is visible nearly every day, its effects in terms of breathing and eye irritation are usually barely noticeable and it should not normally be cause for concern for visitors. 
Pollution is highest in the winter from late November to early February, especially when a greenhouse effect causes cold dirty air to be trapped under warm cleaner air. 
When the index exceeds 150 points, an "Environmental pre-contingency" is usually issued and people are asked to refrain from performing open-air activities such as sports. In the case of an "Environmental Contingency," only vehicles with a zero or double zero emissions sticker can circulate.


=== Earthquakes ===
Earthquakes are very common at the junction of the Pacific and North American tectonic plates, which meet close to the Mexican Pacific coast about 400 km (250 mi) away. This is far enough away from the city so that when an earthquake occurs, Mexico City has about a 30- to 90-second warning. This alarm is broadcast loudly from the speakers installed at the security cameras. It sounds like an air-raid alarm followed by a spoken recording ("Alerta Sísmica"). Should you hear this alarm or feel an earthquake, remain calm and follow some simple rules: if you are indoors, stay under the doorways, move away from objects that can fall, and/or follow exit paths ("Rutas de Evacuación") out to the streets; if you are outdoors, move away from slopes or electrical wires towards open areas or places marked "safe zones." Since large parts of the city (Center, East and North) were built on the soft clay from the dry bed of lake Texcoco, earthquakes can feel quite powerful despite the distance.
The catastrophic earthquake of 8.1 magnitude on the Richter scale, that took place in the morning of September 19, 1985, killing 9,000 to 30,000 people, remains fresh in the memory of many of Mexico City's inhabitants.  Right after the 1985 earthquake, many buildings were reinforced and new buildings are designed to meet structural criteria by law. No major building collapse has happened since, even after several strong earthquakes. You can check the latest earthquake activity at the National Earthquake Center an institute of the National University (UNAM).


=== In case of emergency ===
Dial 911, the number for all emergencies (fire, police and medical).


== Cope ==
Some people may consider Mexico City to have a bad reputation, in terms of crime statistics, air pollution, and on more contrived issues, such as earthquakes.  However, crime and pollution levels have fallen, and you shouldn't face any trouble within the tourist areas.  As in some large cities, there are areas that are better to be avoided, especially at night, and precautions to take, but Mexico City is not particularly dangerous.
When walking in the city you could be approached by people. Usually they are just trying to sell something or begging for a few coins, but if you aren't interested, it is not considered insulting to just ignore them. If you clearly look like a foreigner, you will likely be approached by students wanting to practice their English. Sometimes they will want to record the conversation for a school assignment. If someone of importance (such as a police officer) approaches you for a particular purpose, they will definitely let you know.
If you are approached by a police officer, understand that there are three different types: the Policia (Police), who are usually driving around the city with their lights flashing; the Policia Auxiliar (blue uniform) (Auxiliary Police), who are like security guards; and the Policia de Transito (bright yellow hat and vest) (Traffic Police) who simply direct traffic.
If you are cruising around town and don't want to look like a tourist, avoid wearing shorts. It gets hot here, but it is remarkable how few locals in the capital city wear shorts. Some churches won't even let you walk inside if you are wearing shorts.
Most Mexicans are very curious about foreigners and are willing to help. If you need directions, try to ask young people, who may speak a little English.


=== Driving ===
Many locals (not all of them, of course) have very aggressive driving habits as a result of the frequent traffic jams in the city. Some traffic signals are more an ornament than what they were made for, such as Stop signs, although most people respect traffic lights and pedestrian ways. When traffic is not present, particularly at night, locals tend to speed up so be careful when changing lanes. Street names and road signs may not be present everywhere so it is strongly advisable to ask for directions before driving your car. A GPS device is a big help. Sometimes potholes, fissures, and large-yet-unmarked speed-bumps ("topes") are common on the roads, so exercise some caution. Even at a small crawl, these can damage a car, especially in the backroads between towns in the Southern area. A fast succession of white lines cutting the road perpendicularly means that a tope is approaching and you should slow down immediately.
When off the main roads, maneuvering in the narrow streets and alleys can be tricky. Often a paved road turns to cobblestone (in historic neighborhoods) or dirt (if this happens, you've gone way off the tourist areas). Also, some streets are blocked off behind gates and do not let drivers pass without stating their destination, converting them into small gated communities. If you are driving through small streets or a housing development, you should beware of children, as they often run on the pavement as if they were in their backyard. You should also be mindful of people on bicycles and motorcycles alike, because they tend to drive in the narrow spaces between cars.  The best thing to do is to yield to them. Trolleys and the Metrobús often have exclusive lanes and the right of way when they don't. On streets with the Metrobús, left turns are not allowed.
Those who are used to having a berm or paved area to the side of the road will quickly notice that the berm is missing on many roads and freeways such as Viaducto and Periferico. If you go off the side of the road, there will be a 20-30-cm (4-6-inch) drop off of the pavement. Driving in Mexico City should be avoided if at all possible. In high density areas such as Centro Historico, Mexico City, there is no street parking available during business hours.
Even the best of plans can go wrong when you arrive at your proposed exit at 110 km/h (65 mph), and there is a detour onto some other road with no markings or road signs, with everyone going as fast as they can go. At that point you may want to exit immediately and regroup before you end up miles from where you planned to exit. Maps and road signs likely will be lacking any usable information in a situation like this and your best bet may be to navigate by the seat of your pants a parallel route to the one you found closed.


=== Drinking ===
In many nightclubs, bars and restaurants it is common for minors to drink without proving their age as long as they appear to be over 18. It is also permitted for minors to drink alcohol if they are in the company of an adult who is willing to take responsibility. Drinking alcoholic beverages in the street is strictly prohibited—doing so will certainly get you in trouble with the police. Drunk driving is also strictly prohibited and punished with 24-72 hours of mandatory jail time. The police have incorporated random alcohol tests on streets near bars and clubs as well as highway exits to enforce this. The system is very efficient, and you will sometimes see a stopped car or truck with a policeman interrogating the occupants.


=== Smoking ===
Smoking inside enclosed areas in public buildings, restaurants and bars is strictly prohibited by law. Fines can be steep, so if you want to smoke in a restaurant it is best to ask the waiter before lighting up. Of course, going outside is always an option. Personal use of electronic cigarettes is permitted.


=== Drugs ===
Small quantities of all drugs are decriminalised, but offenders could be imprisoned if found in possession of more than one personal dose. You don't want to go to jail while a judge determines if what you're carrying is a personal dose.


=== Embassies ===
Most embassies are clustered in the areas around Bosque de Chapultepec in Delegación Miguel Hidalgo and in the adjacent and more central Delegación Cuauhtémoc. There are others located further south in Delegacion Álvaro Obregón as well. Some of the embassies in Mexico City are accredited as non-resident embassies to Central America, the Caribbean and/or South America while others are accredited to Mexico from Washington DC or from their Permanent Mission to the United Nations in New York:

  Argentina, Av. Paseo de las Palmas N° 1670, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Del. Miguel Hidalgo, ☏ +52 55 5520-9430, fax: +52 55 5540-5011. M-F 08:30-17:00. Embassy is also accredited to Belize. 
  Australia, Rubén Darío 55, Col. Bosque de Chapultepec, Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11580, ☏ +52 55 1101-22000, fax: +52 55 1101-2201. M-F 08:30-17:00. Embassy is also accredited to Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama. 
  Austria, Sierra Tarahumara 420, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11000, ☏ +52 55 5251-0806, fax: +52 55 5245-0198. M-F 09:00-12:00. Embassy is also accredited to Belize Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua where they have and oversee honorary consulates. 
  Brazil (Brasil), Lope de Armendáriz 130, Col. Lomas Virreyes, Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11000, ☏ +52 55 5201-4531, fax: +52 55 5520-6480. 
  Belize (Belice), Bernardo de Gálvez No. 215, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11000, ☏ +52 55 5520-1346, fax: +52 55 5520-6089, embelize@prodigy.net.mx. M-Th 09:00-17:00, F 09:00-16:30. 
  Belgium (Belgica), Calle Alfredo de Musset 41, Colonia Polanco, Del Miguel Hidalgo 11550, ☏ +52 55 5280-0758, fax: +52 55 5280-0208. M-F 08:30-13:30. 
  Bolivia, Goethe 104, Verónica Anzúres, Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11550, ☏ +52 55 5255-3620, +52 55 5255-3630. M-F 08:30-12:00 & 13:45-16:30. (updated Dec 2023)
  Canada, Schiller 529, Col. Bosque de Chapultepec (Polanco) Del. Miguel Hidalgo, ☏ +52 55 5724 7900, fax: +52 55 5724 7980, mxico@international.gc.ca. M-F 09:00-12:00 & 14:30-16:00; notarial services are available at 09:00-10:00 only. 
  Chile, Andrés Bello Nº10, Piso 18, Edificio Forum Colonia, Col. Polanco, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, ☏ +52 55 5280-9682, +52 55 5280-9682, +52 55 5280-9689. The consulate is at a separate location at Calle Arquímedes N° 212, 5° Piso, Colonia Polanco, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo 
  China, Av. Río de la Magdalena 172, Colonia Tizapán – San Ángel, Delegación Álvaro Obregón 01090, ☏ +52 55 5616 4324, +52 55 5616 4309, +52 55 5616 4239. M-F 09:00-13:00, phone service 16:00-19:00. 
  Colombia, Paseo de la Reforma 412 Piso 19, Col. Benito Juarez, Del. Cuauhtemoc, ☏ +52 55 5525-0277. The consulate is at a separate location at Paseo de la Reforma 319 Piso 1, Col. Cuauhtemoc. Tel: +52 55 5525-4562 (updated Jan 2017)
  Costa Rica, Rio Po #113, Col. Cuahtémoc, Del. Cuahtémoc, ☏ +52 55 5525-7766, fax: +52 55 5511-9240. (updated Jan 2017)
  Cuba, Presidente Masaryk, No. 554 Col. Polanco. Delegación Miguel Hidalgo 11560 (Entre Bernard Shaw y Línea Ferrocarril de Cuernavaca), ☏ +52 55 6236 8737. (updated Jan 2017)
  Denmark (Dinamarca), Tres Picos #43, Col. Polanco., Delegación Miguel Hidalgo 11580, ☏ +52 55 5255-3405, fax: +52 55 5545-5797. (updated Jan 2017)
  Dominican Republic (Republica Dominicana), Prado Sur 755, Col Lomas de Chapultepec, Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11000, ☏ +52 55 5540-3841. The consulate is at a separate location at Francisco Petrarca #336, Int. 301, 3a Piso, Col. Chapultepec Morales. Tel: +52 55 5260-7262 (updated Jan 2017)
  Ecuador, Calle Tennyson N° 217, Col. Polanco, Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11560 (entre Av. Homero y Horacio), ☏ +52-55 5254-4665. M-F 09:00-17:00. Diplomatic relation between Ecuador and Mexico is terminated since 5 April 2024. While Mexico announced that Ecuadoran diplomats will not be expelled, embassy operations may be affected. 
  El Salvador, Calle Temistocles 88, Polanco, Polanco IV Secc, Del Miguel Hidalgo 11560, ☏ +52-55-5281-5725. 
  Egypt (Egipto), Alejandro Dumas 131, Col. Polanco, Del Miguel Hidalgo 11560, ☏ +52 1 5281-0823, +52 1 5281-0698. (updated Jan 2018)
  Finland (Finlandia), Monte Pelvoux 111, 4. piso, Colonia Lomas de Chapultepec, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo 11000 México D.F., ☏ +52-55-5540 6036, fax: +52-55-5540 0114, sanomat.mex@formin.fi. M-F 09:00-13:00. Embassy is also accredited to Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama 
  France (Francia), Av Campos Elíseos 339, Miguel Hidalgo, Polanco, Polanco III Secc, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo 11560 México D.F., ☏ +52-55-9170-9700. 
 1 Georgia, Monte Everest 905, Colonia Lomas de Chapultepec, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo 11000 México D.F., ☏ +52 55 5520 0118, fax: +52 55 5520 0897, mexico.emb@mfa.gov.ge. M-F 09:00-18:00.    
  Germany (Alemania), Horacio 1506, Col. Los Morales, Sección Alameda, Delegacion Miguel Hidalgo 11530, ☏ +52 55 5283-22-00, fax: +52 55 5281-25-88. M-Th 07:30-16:30, F 07:30-15:00. 
  Greece (Grecia), Monte Ararat 615, Lomas de Chapultepec V Secc, Del. Miguel Hidalgo, ☏ +52-55-5520-2070. 
  Guatemala, Explanada 1025, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec V Secc, Del. Miguel Hidalgo, ☏ +52-55-5520-9249. 
  Haiti, Sierra Vertientes 840, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo 11000, ☏ +52 55 5580-2487, +52 55 5557-2065. M-Th 09:00-16:00, F 9:00-15:00. (updated Jan 2018)
  Honduras, Calle Alfonso Reyes #220, Col. Hipódromo Condesa, Del. Cuauhtémoc 06170, ☏ +52-55-5211-5747. 
  Iran, Paseo de la Reforma 2350, Col. Lomas Altas, Del. Miguel Hidalgo, ☏ +52-55-9172-2690. (updated Dec 2023)
  Iraq, Paseo de la Reforma No. 1875, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo 11000, ☏ +52 55 5596-0933, fax: +52 55 5596-0294. (updated Jan 2018)
  Ireland (Irlanda), Cda. Blvd. Manuel Avila Camacho No. 76, piso 3 Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Del Miguel Hidalgo 11000. (updated Jan 2018)
  Israel, Sierra Madre 215, Lomas - Virreyes, Lomas de Chapultepec, Miguel Hidalgo 11000, ☏ +52 55 5201-1537, fax: +52 55 5201-1555. (updated Jan 2018)
  Italy (Italia), Paseo de las Palmas 1994, Col. Lomas Chapultepec, Del. Miguel Hidalgo, 11000, ☏ +52-55-5596-3655, +52 55 5596-7710. M Tu Th 09:00-13:00; 15:00-16:00 Passport Issuance; 13:30-15:00 Visa Issuance. 
  Jamaica, Paseo de las Palmas 1340, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec Morales, Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11000, ☏ +52 55 5250-6804, +52 55 5250-6806. M-Th 09:00-17:00, F 09:00-15:00. They also have a Facebook page on https://www.facebook.com/embjamex/ for local events and other notices from the embassy. (updated Jan 2018)
  Japan (Japón), Paseo de la Reforma No.395 Col. Cuauhtémoc, Del. Cuauhtémoc 06500, ☏ +52 55 5211 0028, fax: +52 55 5207 7743. 
  Republic of Korea (Corea del Sur), Lope Diaz de Armendariz 110, Col Lomas de Chapultepec IV Secc, 11000 Del. Miguel Hidalgo, ☏ +52 55 5202-9866. M-F 09:00-13:00 & 15:00-17:00. 
  DPR Korea (Corea del Norte), Halley 12, Col. Anzures, Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11590, ☏ +52 55 5250-0263. M-F 09:00-13:000. 
  Lebanon (Líbano), Calle Julio Verne 8, Polanco III Secc, Miguel Hidalgo, 11560 CDMX, ☏ +52 55 5280-5614, +52 55 5280-6794. (updated Jan 2018)
  The Netherlands (los Paises Bajos), Av. Vasco de Quiroga 3000-7a Piso, Edificio Calukmul, Colonia Santa Fe, Delegacion Miguel Hidalgo 11000, ☏ +52 55 5258-9921, +52 55 1150-6550, fax: +52 55 5258-8138. 
  New Zealand (Nueva Zelanda), Corporativo Polanco, Jaime Balmes 8, Piso 4 - 404A, Col Los Morales, Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11500, ☏ +52 55 5283-9460, fax: +52 55 5283-9480. M-F 09:30-14:00 & 15:00-17:00. Embassy is also accredited to Belize, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama & Venezuela 
  Nicaragua, Prado Norte 470, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Del. Miguel Hidalgo, ☏ +52 55 5283-9460, fax: +52 55 5283-9480. 
  Norway (Noruega), Avenida Virreyes 1460, Col. Lomas Virreyes, Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11000, ☏ +52 55 5047-3700. M-Th 09:00-15:00, F 09:00-12:00. (updated Jan 2018)
  Panama, Calle Sócrates No.339, Colonia Polanco, Delegacion Miguel Hidalgo 11560, ☏ +52 55 5280-7857. (updated Dec 2023)
  Peru, Paseo de la Reforma 2601, Colonia Lomas de Reforma, Delegacion Miguel Hidalgo, ☏ +52 55 1105-2270. M-F 09:00-14:00 (to receive and issue documents). The consulate is at a separate location at Presidente Masaryk, No. 29, Colonia Polanco, Del. Miguel Hidalgo. Tel: +52 55 5203-4838 or 4401-2381 (Emergencies) 
  Philippines (Filipinas), Rio Rhin 56, Colonia Cuauhtemoc, Delegacion Cuauhtemoc, ☏ +52 55 5202 9360, fax: +52 55 5202 8403, mexico.pe@dfa.gov.ph. M-F 08:00-17:00. 
  Paraguay, Homero 415 , Col. Polanco, Delegacion Miguel Hidalgo, ☏ +52 55 5545-0403, +52 55 5545-0405. 
  Portugal, Alpes 1370, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec V Secc, Delegacion Miguel Hidalgo 11000 (Entre Montañas Rocallosas y Montes Apalaches), ☏ +52 55 5520-7897. M-F 08:00-12:00 & 13:00-15:00. 
  Romania, Calle Sófocles, 311, Colonia Polanco, Delegación Miguel Hidalgo, 11560, ☏ +52 55 5280 0197, fax: +52 55 5280 0343, mexico@mae.ro. Embassy) 
  Russia, Maestro José Vasconcelos 204, Col. Hipódromo Condesa, Del. Cuauhtémoc 06140, ☏ +52 55 5271-4856. 
  Spain (España), Calle Galileo 114, Col. Polanco, 1150 Del Miguel Hidalgo (Corner of Horacio and c/ Galileo), ☏ +52-55-5281-5725. M-Th 09:00-17:00, F 09:00-15:00. 
  South Africa (Sudáfrica), Andrés Bello 10, Piso 9, Col. Polanco, Del Miguel Hidalgo CP-11560, ☏ +52 55 1100-4970. M-F 08:30-16:30. (updated Oct 2018)
  Sweden (Suecia), Paseo las Palmas 1375, Paseo de las Palmas, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Del Miguel Hidalgo, ☏ +52 55 9178-5010, fax: +52 55 5540-2347. (updated Oct 2017)
  Switzerland (Suiza), Torre Optima, Piso 11, Paseo de las Palmas, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Del Miguel Hidalgo 11000 (Corner of Horacio and c/ Galileo), ☏ +52-55-91 78 43 70, fax: +52 55 55 20 86 85. M-Th 09:00-12:00 & 14:00-15:00, F 09:00-12:00. 
  Taiwan (Oficina Económica y Cultural de Taipei en México), Bosque de La Reforma 758,Bosques de Las Lomas, Miguel Hidalgo 11700, ☏ +52 55 5245-8887. (updated Jul 2024)
  Turkey, Monte Líbano No. 885. Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11000, ☏ +52 55 5282-5446, +52 55 5282-4277. M-F 09:00-13:00 & 14:00-16:30 (10:00-12:30 Consular Section). (updated Jan 2018)
  United Kingdom (Reino Unido), Río Lerma, No. 71, Col. Cuauhtémoc, Del. Cuauhtémoc, ☏ +52 55 1670-3200. M-Th 08:00-16:30, F 08:00-14:00. Consular services are temporary available at Torre Cuadro (3rd floor) ; Cda. Blvd. Avila Camacho, 76-3; Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Del. Miguel Hidalgo (updated Jan 2017)
 2 United States (Estados Unidos), Paseo de la Reforma 305, Col. Cuauhtémoc, Del. Cuauhtémoc, ☏ +52 55 5080 2000, fax: +52 55 5080 2005.    (updated Jan 2017)
  Uruguay, Hegel 149 – Piso 1, Col. Polanco, Del. Miguel Hidalgo, ☏ +52 55 5531-0880. M-F 09:00-15:00. (updated Jan 2017)
  Venezuela, Schiller 326, Colonia Chapultepec Morales, Del. Miguel Hidalgo 11560, ☏ +52 55 4820-9178. (updated Jan 2017)
See this Link from Instituto Nacional de Migración (INM), the Mexican Immigration Department for a list of embassies and consulates of additional countries in Mexico.


== Go next ==
Your next destination for a trip or staying can be...


=== in the south-east ===
Puebla – 140 km. UNESCO world heritage place for its colonial architecture and site of the battle with the French army in the mid-1800s. The city is known throughout Mexico for its cuisine; it's worthwhile to do some sight-seeing and sample some of the food. Many good restaurants are conveniently located near the main square.


=== in the south ===
Cuernavaca – 80 km. The capital city of the state of Morelos. It's known worldwide as "The City of Eternal Spring" due to its nice climate.
Tepoztlan – 80 km. A cool new age city south of Mexico City which has an interesting pyramid on top of a mountain. The journey up to see the pyramid takes approximately an hour and is well worth it once you see the view on top. Tepoztlan is also known for its frequent UFO activity. Believe it or not if you want, but a large percentage of the town residents claim to have seen the "ovni."
Oaxtepec – 100 km. It's is a great place to get out of the hectic city and do some swimming. The climate is constantly warm and sunny and there is a very affordable and very fun waterpark (only half is open on weekdays, on the weekends the rest of the park is open). There are plenty of lodging options and most include access to a club house with a sauna and an Olympic pool and diving pool. Buses leave from the Taxqueña bus station and cost M$78-156 (March 2022) through OCC.
Taxco – 180 km. Famous for its beautiful colonial architecture and narrow cobbled streets.


=== in the west ===
Valle de Bravo – 140 km. A beautiful town next to a lake and in the middle of the forest, great place for all kinds of sports (e.g. mountain biking, sailing, water skiing and paragliding). Consider driving up Nevado de Toluca and into the crater that holds a lake. Nevado de Toluca is a dormant volcano on your way to Valle de Bravo. Also, late winter/early spring is the best time to see the monarch butterflies on your way to VdB.


=== in the north-west ===
San Miguel de Allende – 270 km. A city known for relaxing. There are thermal pools just outside the city. The old town is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Querétaro – 220 km. A big aqueduct goes through the city. The old town is a UNESCO world heritage. There you can taste a Gordita Queretana.


=== in the north ===
Pachuca – 90 km. "The Beautiful Windy". A cozy little miners city.


=== By air ===
Mexico City has direct low-cost flights to many destinations, for example:

Cancún on the Yucatán peninsula
Cabo San Lucas and La Paz on the Baja California peninsula
Tuxtla in Chiapas
Puerto Vallarta, Puerto Escondido and Mazatlán on the Pacific coast