For the city in Florida, see Saint Petersburg (Florida)

 
Saint Petersburg (Russian: Са́нкт-Петербу́рг Sankt-Peterburg), known as Petrograd (Петроград) in 1914-1924 and Leningrad (Ленинград) in 1924-1991, is the second largest city of Russia, with 5.6 million inhabitants (2021), the fourth most populous city in Europe, the world's northernmost city of at least a million residents, and the former capital of the Russian Empire. Founded in 1703, it is not ancient, but its historical cityscape is remarkably well-preserved. The center of Saint Petersburg occupies numerous islands of the Neva River delta, divided by waterways and connected by huge drawbridges. Since 1991, it and some historical suburbs, including Peterhof, have been listed by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site. It is part of the Silver Ring of cultural and historical centers of the Northwest of Russia. It is home to one of the world's largest museums of art, the Hermitage. Many Russians know the city as Piter (Питер), a  diminutive of Saint Petersburg.


== Districts ==


== Understand ==


=== History ===

Saint Petersburg was built by Peter the Great in 1703 on the Neva River, on the land he had just conquered from the Swedish Empire, outside the area then populated by the Russian people. Pre-planned almost from the very beginning, the city, called by Peter "my window on Europe", was designed to look European rather than Russian, was designed by many European architects. As the capital of the Russian Empire from the early 18th century to the early 20th century, the city grew steadily, saw many crucial events of the Russian history, and was a major cultural center. Many world-famous artists, scientists, writers and composers, such as Mendeleev, Dostoevsky and Tchaikovsky, lived and worked here.
In 1917, the city came under communist rule after the Russian Revolution. The significance of Saint Petersburg has declined somewhat after the transfer of the Russian capital to Moscow in 1918, but this allowed its cityscape to remain largely intact to this day. During World War II, the city was besieged by the Wehrmacht for 872 days, resulting in more than a million deaths, mainly from starvation. It remains the deadliest siege in world history. 
The city has undergone several name changes since its founding. Due to the German origins of the name "Saint Petersburg", its name was changed to the more Russian-sounding "Petrograd" in 1914 in the wake of World War I. Subsequently, its name was changed to "Leningrad" in honour of the founding leader of the Soviet Union, Vladimir Ilyich Lenin. In 1991, after the breakup of the Soviet Union, the original name was restored, though the surrounding area remains known as Leningrad Oblast. During the hardship years of Yeltsin's presidency in the 1990s, much of the city was controlled by the Tambov gang.
Saint Petersburg has almost always been, or at least tried to be a city with strong foreign connections, and this is where its authenticity lies. Don't expect it to be overly indigenous. Matryoshkas and other such souvenirs popular among foreigners have very little to do with its authentic life.


=== Climate ===


=== White nights and black days ===
The city's position at 60°N makes for huge seasonal variation in day length. Days are less than 6 hours long at the end of December, but it never gets darker than twilight during the White Nights season in June. Not only are the days very short in late autumn and early winter, but the weather may be overcast for weeks, without a hint of blue sky, which may feel depressing. However, when the sun does shine through in December, the light of the low sun, not more than only seven degrees above the horizon at its zenith, bathes the city and its snow-covered landmarks, canals, and neoclassical architecture in an enchanting, diffuse, golden light.


=== Weather ===
The driest season with least precipitation is early spring. July and August are usually the rainiest months, though the difference is usually not big enough to worry about. But if you care about this, it is a good idea to have an umbrella or raincoat handy.

In November–March there are hardly any tourists—even domestic tourists—so you won't see the barest hint of the long lines of the summer at the Hermitage. Saint Petersburg's neoclassical streets are also simply gorgeous in the snow. Temperatures can range from relatively mild, slightly above freezing point, to bitterly cold. From time to time it may get well below the averages, to -25°C (-13F) and below, often with high humidity and wind, so be prepared to dress warmly. Most major tourist attractions (except fountains and all sorts of water transport, of course) are still open and some hotels offer lower prices during this time.
Snow cover persists on average from November till early April (late April in the countryside), with most of it falling during the first half of the winter. Snow is not always removed from streets in time and may exacerbate traffic problems. The danger of slipping may be high in winter, as the surfaces are often covered with ice. Wear good boots, take small steps, and watch your feet! Also beware of icicles falling from roofs.
The rivers and canals are frozen on average from late November till April. Usually from late April till November the Neva is navigable, and during this season most of its huge bridges are drawn up to let ships pass for several hours each night according to a published schedule. This is a spectacular sight during the White Nights, but also a major transport inconvenience.
In April, the sludge resulting from melting snow and the dust which forms when it dries up may get tiresome.

May 9 is Victory Day (День победы) celebrating the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany. This day is marked with an opening military parade on Palace Square, directly in front of the Hermitage, visiting various war monuments, giving flowers to war veterans who are dressed in full military outfits, and an evening parade down Nevsky Prospekt which includes survivors of the Siege of Leningrad.

June is peak tourist season during the famous White Nights (roughly 11 June–2 July), when the sun sets only for a brief period of twilight, and the streets stay alive around the clock. The last ten days of June, during the White Nights Festival of all-day performances, concerts, festivals, and parties, are the busiest time of the season and it can be difficult to reserve accommodation and transport. Book early.
July and August are usually the warmest months. This is a rather northern city, and it rarely gets really hot, but even more modest warmth can be hard to bear in summer because of the high humidity. Rain showers usually come and go throughout this time, so it is always a good idea for one to have an umbrella or rain jacket at all times, even on sunny clear days.
Late September—early October is a lovely time in the city. The temperatures drop to moderate, often with strong winds, and the tourists are all gone. Rain is still common.
Fountains work from May through mid-September. Most trees are in leaf from May through October.
When deciding on the time of your visit, keep in mind the days of school holidays, when museums and other similar venues can become considerably more crowded. School holidays happen in early November, the first half of January and late March. Moreover, general holidays are held around the New Year into early January, as well as in early May.
New Years is the biggest holiday of the year in Russia. Reserving a hotel room is usually not a problem during this time, but be prepared for very large crowds and noisy celebrations.


== Talk ==

The language spoken in Saint Petersburg is Russian, as in most parts of Russia. English is usually taught in schools and universities, so younger people are supposed to understand it to some extent, but the chance of finding anybody who is fluent in English on the streets is, though better than elsewhere in Russia including Moscow, still not that great. Average people will probably be able to point out a direction, but don't expect much more. The signs and labels in most places, especially off the beaten path, are still in Russian only, with a notable exceptions of metro (subway) and street signs in the city centre. It may be a good idea to get familiar with the Russian Cyrillic alphabet before the travel, as this is easy and lets you recognize street names and so on.


== Get in ==
Russian visa requirements are complex but are not hard to manage with some online research. See the Get In section of the article on Russia for information.


=== By plane ===


==== Pulkovo Airport ====
1 Pulkovo Airport (LED  IATA Аэропо́рт Пу́лково, Aeroport Pulkovo), Ul. Startovaya (ул. Стартовая), Northern Capital Gateway LLC (~17km south from the center), ☏ +7 812 337-38-22, office@pulkovo-airport.com. There is unlimited free Wi-Fi. The airport has business lounges that are free for first and business class travelers but are available for use by all passengers upon payment of a fee. The lounges include snacks, drinks, televisions, and showers.      


===== Airport to city travel =====
City Buses (80 руб) 39Э (Express) operate service between the airport and the Moskovskaya (Московская) metro station for transfers to/from Metro Line 2 and other buses, while bus 82 operates service to/from the Проспект Ветеранов station for transfers to/from Metro Line 1 and other buses. Buses are available 05:15-01:40.
Yandex.Taxi is the official airport taxi and costs RUB1,000-2,000 to the city center. Taxis can be booked via the mobile app or via the desk in the arrivals hall. Taxi 068 also can booked online. Do NOT accept an offer of a taxi ride from a tout unless a price is negotiated in advance. Expect these touts to try to rip you off.
Pre-booked taxis will cost more, but you will be welcomed in the arrival hall by your driver carrying a sign with your name. Pre-booking through the internet is without risk, no credit card information is asked, and pre-payment is not required.


=== By train ===
Tickets can be bought at the train stations or online. Long distance train tickets are generally more expensive if bought close to the date of travel. See Russia#By train 2 for more details on travelling in Russia by train.
There are five principal train stations in Saint Petersburg:

2 Baltiysky Station (Балтийский вокзал), Nab. Obvodnogo Kanala, 120 (: Baltiyskaya). This is one of the busiest railway stations in Russia by volume of suburban traffic. The station was modeled by architect Alexander Krakau after Gare de l'Est in Paris. Construction started in 1854. The station was opened on 21 July 1857 as the Peterhof Railway Station. The station retains a glass roof over the terminal platforms and is flanked by two-storey wings. The left one used to be reserved for members of the Russian royalty who went to their palaces in Strelna, Peterhof, Oranienbaum. A glass panel on the façade still features the original clock, designed by Pavel Bure, a celebrated watchmaker to the tsar and the ice-hockey players' ancestor. Trains operate to/from Petrodvorets (Peterhof), Lomonosov (Oranienbaum), Gatchina, Luga. Also used by trains to/from Aeroport station, with connecting buses to Pulkovo airport.      
3 Finlyandsky Station (Финляндский вокзал), Lenin Square (пл. Ленина, ул. Комсомола), 5 (: Ploschad Lenina ("Площадь Ленина").). Built by Finnish State Railways as the eastern terminus of the Riihimäki-Saint Petersburg railroad, it was designed by Swedish architects and opened in 1870 but was heavily reconstructed in the 1950s and 1970s. The station formerly contained a special pavilion for Russian royalty.      
4 Ladozhsky Station (Ладожский вокзал), Zanevsky Prospekt (Заневский проспект, Площадь Карла Фаберже), 73 (:Ladozhskaya «Ладожская», : 4М, 4МА, 5, 21, 24, 27, 30, 77, 82, 92, 123, 168, 429, 453, 462, 531, 532, 533, 860Л : 8, 10, 59, 64; :1, 22). This is the newest and most modern passenger railway station in Saint Petersburg, designed by architect Nikita Yavein, is one of the largest in Russia with a capacity of up to 50 commuter departures and 26 long distance departures accommodating 4,500 passengers per hour. Built at a cost of RUB9,000,000,000 (US$300 million), the station opened in 2003 for the 300th anniversary of the city's founding. Trains operate to/from Petrozavodsk (835 руб), Arkhangelsk (1697 руб), Tyumen (3038 руб), Tula (1435 руб), Krasnodar (2839 руб), Murmansk (2030 руб), Ekaterinburg, Cheliabinsk, Omsk, Novosibirsk, Astana (Kazakhstan), and other cities.      
5 Moskovsky Station (Moskovsky station, Moskovsky vokzal, Московский вокзал), Nevsky av., 85 ? Ploshchad Vosstaniya (Площадь Восстания), 2 (:Ploshchad Vosstaniya (closer)(Площадь Восстания) and :Mayakovskaya (Маяковская);  1М, 1Мб, 3, 3М, 3Мб, 4М, 4Мб, 5М, 5Мб, 7, 15, 22, 26, 27, 54, 65, 74, 76, 91, 141, 181, 191.  1, 5, 7, 10, 11, 22), ☏ +7 812 457-44-28. It has an easily recognizable Neo-Renaissance frontage on Nevsky Prospekt and Uprising Square, erected in 1844-51 to a design by Konstantin Thon. Although large "Venetian" windows, two floors of Corinthian columns and a two-storey clocktower at the centre explicitly reference Italian Renaissance architecture, the building incorporates other features from a variety of periods and countries. A twin train station, now known as the Leningradsky railway station, was built to Thon's design at the other end of the railway, in Moscow. Trains operate to/from Moscow, Novgorod, Azerbaijan, Volgograd, Kazan, Samara, Rostov-na-Donu, Ufa, Sochi, and other cities.      
6 Vitebsky Station (Витебский вокзал, Станция Санкт-Петербург-Витебский), Zagorodny av.(Загородный проспект), 52? (: Pushkinskaya (Пушкинская), : Zvenigorodskaya (Звенигородская);  1М, 1Мб, 4М, 4Мб, 5М, 5Мб; : 16; : 3, 8, 15, 17). Formerly known as the Tsarskoe Selo Station, it was the first railway station to be built in Saint Petersburg and the whole of the Russian Empire. Architecture: Construction started in 1901 and lasted for three years. Stanislaw Brzozowski gave the new two-storey station an ornate frontage in an assortment of historical styles, with decorative reliefs, floriated Jugendstil detailing, outsize semicircular windows and two regular features of 19th-century train stations: a pseudo-Renaissance cupola and a square clocktower. However, it was Sima Minash's opulent Art Nouveau interior that established the building as the most ornate of St. Petersburg stations. Minash was responsible for the sweeping staircases, foyer with stained glass and spacious halls boasting a series of painted panels that chronicle the history of Russia's first railway. The building's soaring arches and expanses of glass proclaimed the architect's familiarity with advanced construction techniques of the West. In 2003, the station underwent a painstaking restoration of its original interior and Jugendstil decor. Apart from the replica of the first Russian train, curiosities of the Vitebsk Station include a detached pavilion for the Tsar and his family and a marble bust of Nicholas I. Trains operate to/from Pushkin (formerly Tsarskoe Selo) and Pavlovsk. 'Local trains': Nevel (815 руб), Novosokolniki (689 руб), Velikie Luki (880 руб), Soltsy (549 руб), and other cities.      


==== From Russia ====
Tickets for travel originating in Russia can be bought at the train stations or online. Long distance train tickets are generally more expensive if bought close to the date of travel. See Russia#By train 2 for more details on travelling in Russia by train.
Sapsan high-speed trains (4-5 hours, 6 per day, 3,000 руб for economy class if bought over 2 months in advance, 7,500 руб for economy class if bought over a week in advance, usually sell out) make travel between downtown Saint Petersburg and downtown Moscow very easy. Some trains make a few stops including Tver. The crew speaks English.
Overnight rapid trains (8-9 hours, 2,000 руб+) are slower but usually cheaper. Price and comfort levels vary, with the luxurious private Grand-Express "hotel train" (featuring some compartments with showers!) at the high end, all the way down to budget connections in third-class platzkart cars. Second-class coupe coaches, which include a bed and sheets, are good value.


=== By bus ===
International buses and buses to major cities in Russia all leave from the 7 main bus station (Avtovokzal), near the Obvodny Kanal metro station. Some may make additional stops elsewhere in the city; see below. Buses are the general method of travel to/from Estonia and Latvia.
The process of crossing the border by bus can take a long time. Border agents only speak Russian and are sometimes not aware of visa requirements, which leads to delays.


==== From Russia ====
The train is much more preferred method of travel than the bus within Russia due to traffic jams. 


==== From the Baltics and other cities in Europe ====
Buses operate to/from the Ivangorod/Narva border crossing, which must be crossed on foot before boarding another bus on the opposite side of the border for continued travel. Border crossing times can range from 3 to 6 hours for entering Russia from Estonia and 1 to 3 hours when leaving Russia to Estonia. Buses between Estonia and Saint Petersburg almost always sell out; it is best to book a week or two in advance.

1 Lux Express, Mitrofanjevskoe Shosse (Митрофаньевское шоссе), 2/1 (: Baltiskii), ☏ +7 812 441 3757. operates service from Tallinn (€47, 7 hours, 7 per day) with a stop at the Ivangorod/Narva border crossing (€27-35, 5 hours, 7 per day), Tartu (€47, 7 hours, 1 per day), Riga (4 per day, 11 hours, €55-63), with connections from the rest of EU. Lux Express is the most comfortable bus between Saint Petersburg and the Russian border.    
2 Ecolines (Amron-ecolines, Transportnaya Kompaniya), Podyezdnoy pereulok (Подъездной переулок), 3 (: Pushkinskaya (Пушкинская)), ☏ +7-812-409-9410. 10:00-20:00. Operates daily departures daily departures to/from Tallinn (€45, 8 hours, 3x per day), Riga (€60-70, 10–12 hours, 3 per day). Buses depart from the main bus station (Avtovokzal) at Obvodniy channel embankment, 36.    
 Baltic Shuttle. Operates service to/from Tallinn (€45). Buses are older and less comfortable than those of Lux Express but the schedule may be more accommodating. Buses depart from the main bus station (Avtovokzal) at Obvodniy channel embankment, 36. 
3 Skylines / Uplines, Kingiseppskoe Shosse (Кингисеппское шоссе), 7 (: Bukharestskaya (Бухарестская)), ☏ +7-960-286-9769. 5:00-18:00. Operates minibus daily departures from Ivangorod (2 hours, 6 per day). In Saint Petersburg, services depart from the bus station near Metro Bukharestskaya while arriving at Metro Prospekt Veteranov, Leninsky Prospekt, Moskovskaya before heading to Bukharestskaya. Bookings are made online using VKontakte. 600 руб.    


=== By boat ===
If you join a cruise tour of St. Petersburg, then you don't need a Russian visa but you have to stay with the tour. See Russia#Visa free entry by ship.

VolgaDream and Stolichnaya Sudokhodnaya Kompania (SSK) operate river cruises on the inland waterway "Volga-Baltic" which links Moscow, the River Volga, and Lakes Onega, Ladoga and Neva.


==== Ports ====
Passenger Port of St. Petersburg “Marine Façade" is the main boat terminal in St. Petersburg. It was built on reclaimed land on the western shore of Vasilyevsky Island at the mouth of the Neva River, 8 km west of the city center. With its 7 berths and 4 terminals, Marine Façade is able to handle 7 large cruise ships and more than 15,000 passengers per day. Bus 158 operates between terminal 3 and the Primorskaya (Примо́рская) metro station.
Smaller cruise ships sail up the Neva river and dock at either English Embankment (Англи́йская на́бережная; Angliyskaya Naberezhnaya) or Lieutenant Schmidt Embankment, both of which are closer to the city center.


== Get around ==


=== Bridge draw schedule ===
Except during the winter, the 9 low bridges in St. Petersburg are drawn during the night to allow for the passage of boat traffic. Therefore, if you don't make it to the side of the river where you are staying before the bridges are drawn and there are no high bridges to cross, you will be stuck until the bridges are lowered. There are "breaks" when some of the bridges are lowered in the middle of the night for approximately 30 minutes to briefly allow everyone to get home. The bridge schedule is particularly noteworthy for those staying on Vasilyevsky Island, which is unreachable at certain times of the night. Seeing the bridges drawn in the middle of the night is a must for all visitors to the city!
The Bolshoy Obukhovskiy Most, 14km south of the Alexander Nevsky Bridge (Мост Алекса́ндра Не́вского), is never drawn, allowing for 24-hour crossing of the Neva River. However, the bridge is out of the way and taxi fares will be higher than a direct route.
The official bridge draw schedule is published online.
The following are the times when the bridges are drawn and will not be able to be crossed:


=== By public transport ===
Electronic card "Podorozhnik" debit cards are the easiest and cheapest way to pay public transport fares for metro, bus, and trams. They can be acquired at the metro cash desks, charged at the desks or the automated ticket machines in metro stations and then used to pay metro and bus fare by simply swiping over the readers at buses or turnstiles. Funds or passes can be loaded onto the card. See info boards besides the cash desks for pricing. There is an additional RUB60 deposit for the card which will be refunded when you return it. The cards work for all metro, tram and trolleybus fares in St. Petersburg and many bus routes. Ticket controllers carry a small card reader to verify if the Podorozhnik card was swiped in the bus.
Fares can also be paid by tapping a Russian debit or credit card on the reader, but the fares are usually higher.


==== By metro ====

Metro lines:, , , , 

Saint Petersburg's metro system is the second largest in Russia, after that of Moscow. The metro is a cheap and effective way to get around the city, and also a major tourist attraction due to the beautiful decorations of the stations. Amateur photography (without a tripod, etc.) is allowed, although professional photography is prohibited. The trains are fast and run frequently. During rush hour, there are 2-3 minutes between trains. Fares, regardless of the distance traveled, are RUB60 per entry if paid via Podorozhnik debit card or RUB86 if paid by contactless Russian debit or credit card or via a token.
Opening and closing times vary; the subway is closed from approximately 00:15 to approximately 05:45, depending on the station.
Metro maps can be found in every train car and always have station names in the Latin alphabet. The station names on the platforms are also in the Latin alphabet, and many other signs are in English. Station announcements on the train are only in Russian, but if you listen carefully you will hear the conductor announce the current station name and the next station as the doors are closing.
Stations are deep underground (30 to 86 meters), and just getting down by escalator can take 1-2 minutes. Transferring trains at transfer stations also involves long walks that can take 5 to 10 minutes. You may also be taken for additional luggage inspection.
Trains can be extremely crowded during rush hour. Be aware of your belongings and expect to have to push your way out of the train upon arrival at your station.


==== By bus, trolleybus, or tram ====

Buses (автобус) and  trolleybuses (троллейбус - trolleibus) run frequently and cover much of the city. Route information is available online and by using the free Yandex.Transport (Яндекс.Транспорт) mobile app. A list of all bus routes is available online.
Buses and trolleys on main routes are frequently overcrowded during rush hours. Tickets (65 руб, with a discount for transfers from the metro) are sold by attendants on board the vehicle (exact change preferred) or by tapping a Russian debit or credit card at the reader.
Trolleybuses are indicated by the letter 'm' (the lower case version of the Russian letter 'т') on the stops, and diesel/gas buses by the letter 'A'. Both buses and trolleybuses may show the same route number, but the trolleybus route in this case is frequently shorter, and can vary in some minor respects.
Trams (трамвай – "tramvai") are not common in the city center due to traffic issues but are available outside the city center.


==== By local train ====
Commuter trains (электричка, elektrichka) may be useful to get to the suburbs. Fares are based on travel distance. Speeds are moderate, but trains operate infrequently. Information is available in Russian online.


=== By taxi ===
Yandex is the official taxi company of Russia and taxis are best hailed via the Yandex Go mobile app. Taxis are always available but are much more expensive during peak periods or when the metro is closed.
Gypsy cabs or flagging down a random car for a ride are also means of transportation but safety and overcharging tourists are common with these methods.


=== By bicycle ===
While the terrain in Saint Petersburg is flat, the city is not bicycle-friendly due to limited bike lanes, bad weather, high curbs and dangerous car traffic. However, you are allowed to take a bicycle onto the elektrichka trains upon payment of a small fee and go to a less crowded suburb to enjoy a ride.


== See ==

The historic center of Saint Petersburg and Related Groups of Monuments are UNESCO world heritage, so definitely worth your while.
As the center of the Russian world for 200 years of the Romanov Dynasty, the city reaped the rewards of Peter the Great's impossibly grandiose and tyrannical vision, and the Empire's extreme inequality. The wealth of the wealthy in Imperial Russia was almost unfathomably extreme, and led to the extreme opulence of the palaces and ecclesiastical buildings throughout the city center, as well as the suburban palaces at Peterhof, Gatchina, Strelna, Pushkin, and Pavlovsk. The greatest concentration of sights is found within the huge area of the center inside the Obvodny Canal, along the south embankment of Vasilievsky Island, and in the southern half of Petrogradsky Island.


=== Highlights ===
The most important attraction is the Winter Palace on Palace Square (right by the Admiralty and the Bronze Horseman), which houses the Hermitage Museum, and which was the winter residence of the Romanov Tsars and essentially the center of the Russian Imperial government. The Hermitage Museum is easily one of the top five art museums in the world, but even if you don't care about art, wandering around the enormous palace itself is extremely rewarding. The nineteenth century, whimsical Church on the Spilled Blood nearby is another internationally recognized icon of the city, with a spectacular setting on the Griboedov Canal near the Mikhailovsky Garden, and filled—literally filled—with beautiful mosaics.
Strolling the palace-lined banks of the Moika, the Fontanka, and the Griboedov Canal in the historic center is a must. During the summer months, you can also enjoy this magnificent architecture from the boat by joining any of the popular (albeit expensive) "channel tours," or opt for a budget boat trip along the Neva river on a so-called riverbus, which is a tiny boat zooming along the river on several routes that are integrated into the system of public transport.
In the same neighborhood, walk down Nevsky Prospekt, which serves as Saint Petersburg's main grand avenue for shops (especially the historic mall of Gostiny Dvor), theaters, and another realm of palaces and cathedrals, most notably the massive Kazan Cathedral. The Kazan Cathedral is functioning, so its easier to visit than the other big cathedrals (no lines, entrance fees, etc.). In the same neighborhood, but off Nevsky, are the Square of the Arts, where you'll find the Russian Museum—an absolute can't-miss for art lovers. The Mariinsky Theater is one of the world's most beautiful performance venues, and you should check it out even if you can't see an opera or ballet performance. Mammoth Saint Isaac's Cathedral, with its impressive balcony views, is another obvious sightseeing destination.
Across the Neva River are more can't-miss sights. The Peter and Paul Fortress on the Petrograd Side is easily one of the city's top three attractions. Aside from its sheer beauty, visit it for its immense history as the final resting place of the Romanov Tsars, as well as its role as a notorious prison for the most high-profile political prisoners under their rule. On Vasilievsky Island, you must at least take a taxi over to the Strelka for the views by the Rostral Columns, across the street from the Old Stock Exchange, home to the Naval Museum, surely one of the best of this kind on the planet. Then take another ride along University Embankment before heading back across the river. Better yet, stop along the way at the weird and wonderful Kunstkamera museum of ethnology, home to Peter the Great's bizarre collection of oddities.
Complicating the desire to see the city's highlights in a short period of time are the magnificent suburban palaces at Peterhof, Pushkin, Lomonosov, Strelna, and Pavlovsk. Any tourists who visit Saint Petersburg and don't see neither the Tsarskoye Selo palaces at Pushkin, nor the Bolshoi Palace at Peterhof, really should be a bit ashamed of themselves. It's like going to Paris and skipping Versailles. Of the three, the Pavlovsk Palace would be the least unforgivable to miss, but if you have the time—go.


=== Exploring more ===
The center has much more sights. Mars Field with the Memorial to the Revolutionary Fighters and the Eternal Flame, the Circus, wonderfully baroque Smolny Cathedral, Peter the Great's Cabin, the rolling parkland of the Tauride Palace and Gardens, Alexander Nevsky Monastery, the Yusupov Palace where Rasputin was killed (if you get the chance to see a performance in the theater inside, jump on it), the neoclassical bust-filled Summer Gardens, Mikhailovsky Castle, the Marble Palace, the small but powerfully heartrending Museum of the Defense and Blockade of Leningrad. Literary buffs should seek out Dostoevsky's local haunts, including the famous "Murder Walk" from Crime and Punishment, which will take you right from Raskolnikov's apartment to the door of the very apartment where the grisly deed was done.
Head back across the river to the Petrograd Side, past the Peter and Paul Fortress, you'll find the Saint Petersburg Mosque, the really impressive Military Museum, the museum-ship of the Cruiser Aurora, the ever... interesting Museum of Political History, and the Botanical Gardens. On Vasilievsky, the whole Neva embankment is filled with great museums and grand buildings. Especially great places to visit (aside from the aforementioned Naval Museum and Kunstkamera) include the Menshikov Palace (run by the Hermitage), the Twelve Collegia, and the Mining Museum. And don't forget to hunt down the some 3,300 year-old sphinx statues from the Theban Necropolis!


=== Further afield ===
There are many things to see in the north and south of the city—especially in the south. Southern Saint Petersburg is home to the Narva Triumphal Arch and its sister monument—the Moscow Triumphal Gate, the huge Monument to the Heroic Defenders of Leningrad (which honestly should be one of the main attractions in this city, if not for its distance from the center), Moscow Victory Park, and one of the best examples of Stalinist architecture (more interesting than you'd think) at the House of the Soviets, fronted by a very large Lenin statue. The most wonderful sight in southern Saint Petersburg, though, may be the whimsical, candy cane-colored Chesme Church.
The eastern part of the city (colloquially known as the Right bank) is renowned for its nineteenth century industrial architecture in the districts of Okhta and Porokhovye (former gunpowder factories).
Northern Saint Petersburg is a bit less notable, but adventurous travelers can find some things of interest, especially in the old industrial district around the Finliandskii Station, at the Forestry Academy and Piskaryovskoye Memorial Cemetery for the fallen in the Siege of Leningrad.
The naval fortress of Kronstadt at Kotlin island, nowadays accessible by road across the dam, is a very significant site for fans of the history of military architecture, and makes for enjoyable day trips by boat.


== Do ==
The Telegram Messenger groups InterNational Events, SPb Couchsurfing, Say Yes Saint Petersburg, Train Your Brain, World Language Cafe, Mafia English Events, and English Meetup Saint Petersburg all contain almost daily events for meeting locals or other foreigners, excursions, or practicing languages.


=== Opera, ballet and theater ===
No trip to St. Petersburg is complete without seeing an opera or ballet performance. The Mariinsky is perhaps the most well-known institution for opera and ballet, but it is by no means the only theater in the city. Tickets are sold on each theater's website, at each theatre's box office, and throughout the city at kiosks and shops called Teatralnaya Kassa. Sometimes blocks of tickets sell out at the kiosks but tickets are still available at the theater, or vice versa, so it is worth checking both places if you have your heart set on a particular performance. It is possible to take not-so-small children into some performances if you take a private box, although you will need to ask when you buy your tickets.


=== Concerts ===
The music scene in St. Petersburg is diverse, with several classical, jazz, and pop concerts to choose from each week. Tickets are available at the same Teatralnaya Kassa locations as ballet and opera tickets, although tickets to pop concerts – especially US and European stars on tour – sometimes use exclusive distributors. For pop and rock concerts, unless you buy tickets for the dance floor (tanzpol), you are expected to sit quietly in your seat as if you were at a ballet - ushers are vigilant about keeping the audience from standing up, dancing, or cheering (polite applause is allowed, but that's about all).
Several of the ballet and opera theaters also offer orchestral and recital performances. Also, don't forget the many small clubs where up and coming bands play.


=== Film ===
Most cinemas in St. Petersburg show Hollywood films dubbed in Russian. Art cinemas like Dom Kino often show independent American or British movies subtitled in Russian.
Annual Message to Man international documentary, short, and animated films festival takes place in October, screening many films in English.


=== Canal boat tours ===
A tour of the canals by boat is a great way to see the city in the summer. The typical tour is through the Moika, out to the Neva to see the Peter and Paul Fortress and the Cruiser Aurora, then in through the Fontanka (sometimes as far as the Mariinsky Theater). Tours start at many points along the route and return to their starting point - hawkers for different boat companies abound on Nevsky Prospect. Boats may or may not have a cafe and toilet on board. Most tours are in Russian but English tours can booked from the Water Tourism Center. 


=== Sport ===
Watch football: FC Zenit Saint Petersburg play in the Russian Premier League, the top tier of Russian football. Their home ground is Krestovsky Stadium, on Krestovsky island 10 km north of city centre. Take Metro M3 (Green Line) west towards Begovaya and get off at Novokrestovskaya.
Watch basketball: BC Zenit Saint Petersburg play in the VTB United League and are considered one of the "big four" of its strongest teams. Their home ground, commonly known as Sibur Arena though it's not its official name anymore, is near Zenit's football stadium.
Watch hockey: HC SKA Saint Petersburg play in the Kontinental Hockey League. Their home ground, SKA Arena, is the largest indoor hockey stadium in the world. Take Metro M2 (Blue Line) south towards Kupchino and get off at Park Pobedy, from there you can take either a shuttle bus to the arena that departs every 5 minutes at match days, or a 15-minute walk through the park.


=== Viewpoints and rooftops ===
The best views in the city are from rooftops, such as rooftop bars and restaurants. Nice views can also be obtained by climbing the more than 250 steps of St. Isaac's Cathedral. Rooftop tours, generally in Russian, are also offered.


=== Events ===


== Learn ==
If you are looking to study in Russia, Saint Petersburg State University, founded by Peter the Great in 1724, is one of Russia's oldest and most prestigious universities. Other prestigious universities in Saint-Petersburg include ITMO University (University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics), Saint Petersburg Polytechnic University and the Saint Petersburg campus of the Higher School of Economics
See Studying in Russia for a list of language schools in Saint Petersburg.


== Buy ==
ATMs accept Russian cards only. Ligovka is the best place to exchange currency; rates are published online. Do not exchange money on the street: the rate won't be any better, and you run a high risk of encountering any of numerous scams.
Small cornerstores are not necessarily more expensive than larger stores.
Churches often have small souvenir/religious shops with a large variety of items.
The famous place to shop is of course on Nevsky Prospekt in the Center. The streetfront shops there, Passazh, and the historic mall at Gostiny Dvor skew upscale, but there are street markets just off Nevsky, most notably Apraksin Dvor (south on Sadovaya from Gostiny Dvor) where you can get anything on the cheap (especially cheap if you speak Russian).
Luxury shopping with world-class brands is available in two places in St. Petersburg: DLT luxury multi-brand store and Staronevsky fashion district.


== Eat ==
Tasty local offerings for street food/fast food include shawarma (шаверма) and pyshki (пышки). Shawarma is a decidedly Saint Petersburg phenomenon (you won't find much of it in other Russian cities), served mostly by Azeris, and is everywhere—in cafes and on the street. Pyshki are Russian doughnuts, wonderful with coffee, and are strongly associated with Saint Petersburg. Russian chain restaurants such as Teremok (Теремок), Kroshka Kartoshka (Крошка Картошка), and Dodo Pizza are common in Saint Petersburg. Булочные Ф. Вольчека is a chain of many bakeries with slices of cake or small tubs of ice cream for under RUB100.
For restaurant dining, offerings are diverse. A pretty unique place to eat Russian cuisine would be the attractive restaurant on the grounds of the Peter and Paul Fortress. International, Western European, Asian fusion (Russified Chinese food is really good, but requires a culinary dictionary to order), etc. are just as easy to find as Russian, and sushi is very popular. Georgian cooking, despite its obscurity, is one of the world's great cuisines, is common in Saint Petersburg. The Central Asian, usually Uzbek, restaurants are a lot of fun too.


== Drink ==


=== Pubs ===
Bars in Saint Petersburg generally have the best beer selection of any city in Russia. The main Baltika (Балтика) brewery is in Saint Petersburg, although there is political controversy surrounding the beer after the company was effectively seized by the government in 2023.


=== Nightclubs ===
Saint Petersburgers know how to party. There is a wide and excellent selection of great clubs that will satisfy all tourists looking to spend the night out. The city hosts clubs of all music. Rock, pop, jazz, hip hop/RnB, and a lot more.
There are several more popular neighborhoods where is the bigger concentration of nightclubs, one famous one being Dumskaya street (Думская улица) connected with Lomonosova street (улица Ломоносова), the neighborhood which is usually just called "Dumskaya", both right near Gostiny Dvor metro station. Another popular one is Rubinshteina street (улица Рубинштейна), which is closer to Mayakovstaya metro station. Overall, locals usually consider Rubinshteina to be above Dumskaya in terms of quality of clubs and people who go there, so it's recommended to choose Rubinshteina between them. But there are plenty of good clubs all around city center, usually closer to Nevsky avenue (Невский проспект), but not limited to it.
There are also several small, rather dirty gay clubs in the city; Cabaret (Кабаре) has multiple locations.


== Sleep ==
The best area for a tourist to stay in is generally considered to be near the Nevsky Prospekt Metro. You'll be able to walk to most of the main attractions, and there are many restaurants, shops, cafes, clubs, etc. right on Nevsky. Staying off Nevsky along one of the beautiful canals is also a fabulous idea.
If you want to sleep further from city centre, it is good to keep close to the blue line, as you can easily change to any other metro line from there, or transfer to the airport connection on Moskovskaya station, and it stops by the most popular tourist attractions too.
As Petersburg is a huge city and most of its interesting sights are  in the centre or to the south of the city, avoid staying in northern or eastern suburbs, even if you have metro nearby, as you will spend way too much time commuting to make good use of your stay - about half hour to reach the centre, not including walking to the metro station, which can easily double it.


== Connect ==
For information on using telephones and buying SIM cards in Russia, see Russia#Connect. Free WiFi always requires registration using a Russian cell phone number due to a Russian law.
The emergency service number is 112.


=== Computer and printer access ===
There are many computer clubs/internet cafes, usually crowded by kids playing CounterStrike.

 CafeMax (Кафемакс), Nevsky Prospekt 90-92 (Metro: Mayakovskaya or Ploschad Vossitanya), ☏ +7 812 273 6655, 2736655@mail.ru. 24 hours per day. Large, well-lighted, and clean. Also offers copying, printing, scanning and faxing services. 


== Stay safe ==


=== Crime ===
As with most other major cities, do not get into altercations with drunks. If traveling at night, it is recommended to stay on the main sidewalks and avoid any dark alleys or yards. Gypsy cabs are not recommended under any circumstances, especially those that linger near bars where expatriates and tourists congregate. 
The average street policeman cannot speak any foreign language, but if you look like a tourist, you could be a target for bribes. Don't panic! Always ask for a receipt and the names of the officers.
Guards at metro stations require random passengers to show carry items and inspect their backpacks. They may even ask you to boot your laptop or show phone screen.
Take care of money, documents, cameras, mobile phones, and anything of value because of pickpocketing. Especially watch out on the Metro during busy times, as people start pushing at the train doors, and pickpockets are frequent, particularly (but not only) at Gostinyy Dvor Metro Station. When riding the Metro, keep in mind that robbery can be a real threat; you should constantly watch what is going on around you and who is standing very close to you. Nevsky Prospekt and nearby markets are also pickpocket hangouts.
Theft of photo equipment is really a big problem in Saint Petersburg. Photo bags probably won't save your camera—it can be opened in less than 5 seconds; the straps can be slashed with a knife even more quickly. Cameras should be kept in bags slung across the body at all times, with your hands keeping a firm grip on them, and no watches or jewelry should be visible at all. Quite obviously, do not show in public that you have a lot of money. Robberies are not uncommon, and many foreigners have been threatened at gun and knife point. However, foreigners are not targeted specifically, and robbers will attack both foreigners and natives that carelessly reveal their wealth.
As a general rule, the farther you are from the city center, the more dangerous it is.
Gangs are a problem, although mafia gang wars are unlikely to affect tourists. Some gangs, however, such as angry hooligans, are out looking for problems and commit crimes that can affect tourists. Saint Petersburg's football club, Zenit Saint Petersburg, is one of the biggest clubs in the country, and has its own band of hooligans. If you decide to visit the football stadium to watch the club play, you should buy tickets to center sectors. If you do not do this and a fight starts, you are likely to get dragged into it by either the hooligans or the police, since both will think you are part of the brawl.
Russian driving is wild. Drivers attack their art with an equal mix of aggressiveness and incompetence. Guidelines are lax and rarely followed. As a pedestrian, take great care when crossing the roads, as pedestrian crossings are ignored, even by police. Pedestrian crossings with a traffic light are quite safe to use, most car drivers will stop. Just like in any other big city always look left and right before crossing the road and make eye contact with the driver if possible.
Bar fights do occur. In the center of the city and around Nevsky Prospekt, they are rare. However, in the suburbs and local cheaper pubs, fights occur almost daily. If you are staying with locals living in these areas, it might be a good idea to avoid these bars. Police are unlikely to show up as they consider fights as small, unimportant, regular and a waste of time, and they will probably laugh at you for calling.
Another danger is the bar scams that abound in the city. Men have been known to have been drugged and robbed by women they met online or on the street. In general avoid any bar that is underground and you have to buzz to get into. Here's how the scam works: Girls approach you and invite to have drinks together, and they will even offer to pay for those drinks. They build trust and take you to other bars. After those bars they talk to a friend on the phone that says that whatever club you want to go is closed and so they take you to a scam bar. There you immediately start being served drinks and food without showing you the menu and then they charge you a ridiculous amount. Calling the police is pointless as they will not show up.


=== Other issues ===
Gay travelers must practice extreme caution while staying in Saint Petersburg, as attacks often occur. Many Russian people look upon public demonstrations of homosexuality with undisguised contempt. It is advised to not openly display one's sexuality.
Leafleters are huge nuisance in Saint Petersburg often standing in packs of 20+ people and giving leaflets of various kind, usually overpriced shops, services or tours. In rare cases they may force you to enter a shop to buy some goods, however they are easily dissuaded if they realize you are a foreigner not speaking Russian.
Overall, be warned that if you are used to living in the US and/or Western Europe, Saint Petersburg, as well as the rest of Eastern Europe, will seem different, and, at times, a bit intimidating. On the other hand, Russian people are usually friendly, welcoming and interested towards foreigners, and nothing should happen to you unless you put yourself in harm's way. If you don't care about them they don't care about you, and nothing should get in your way of having a great holiday.


=== Natural hazards ===
Another subtle danger that can affect your trip is the inevitable effect of winter weather. Poor harvesting of snow and ice is a big problem in the city. Caution is advised in snowy winters because of falling ice from roofs, and pedestrians should pay special attention to ice on the streets. Try to keep away from buildings and closer to the road. Snow on marble is very, very slippery—have good shoes, take small steps and watch your feet!
Marble sidewalk is often not mounted firmly into the ground and moves around instead. Also it tends to be uneven. Be careful when walking.
St. Petersburg regularly experienced floods during its history, sometimes catastrophic. However, the construction of the preventive dam has been completed, and catastrophic floods are unlikely to happen again.


== Stay healthy ==
The private hospitals listed below have English-speaking Russian doctors (very few, if any, hospital staff are expats). Depending on the type of service provided and the terms of one's insurance policy, these hospitals may be able to arrange direct billing with European and American medical insurance companies.

4 American Medical Clinic, Moyka Embankment 78 (Just west of St. Isaac's Square, : Admiralteyskaya 'Адмиралтейская' or : Sadovaya 'Садовая'), ☏ +7 812 740 2090, fax: +7 812 310 4664, info@amclinic.ru. 24 hours. Includes dental clinic and pediatric unit. Consultation from 2700 руб.    
5 Euromed, Suvorovsky Prospekt (Суворовский пр.)60 (: Chernyshevskaya 'Чернышевская', further To stop Tulskaya ulitsa : 22, 22a, 136), ☏ +7 812 327 0301, euromed@euromed.ru. 24 hours. Multi-specialty medical center that provides a full range of medical services, applying international standards and protocols of diagnostics and treatment. Includes its own laboratory and pharmacy units, in-patient department with comfortable 5-star hotel class wards, ambulance team. English-speaking personnel provides direct insurance billing and any administrative support to the patient (accommodation, visas, transfers, medical evacuations).    
6 MEDSI, Ulitsa Marata (ул. Марата) 6 (: Mayakovskaya 'Маяковская'), ☏ +7 812 336 3333. 24 hours. Includes dental clinic, pediatric unit, and other services. Consultation 2700-13800 руб.    
The city's water-system is not ideal because of a number of old pipes and as a result does not provide 100% clean water (too much heavy metals). Some locals boil or also filter tap water before use; you might want to buy it bottled if water quality affects you. It's germ free, though, so brushing your teeth with it is fine—it's just not great for drinking. Cold water is cleaner than hot. Some lodging has no hot water for long periods of time.
There are numerous public toilets, although many charge a nominal fee and toilet paper is not always provided. Many canteens, restaurants, and hotels will allow tourists to use their bathrooms without being a customer.


== Cope ==
Saint Petersburg is plagued by mosquitoes during the summer, especially in June, as the swampy surroundings of the city give the mosquitoes excellent living conditions. In budget accommodation with few countermeasures against the mosquitoes, this can be a problem at night, putting your well deserved sleep at risk. Less of an issue in the city center, mosquitoes can be much more numerous on the outskirts. They are not dangerous, though, just a nuisance.


=== Consulates and visa centers ===


== Go next ==


=== Day trips ===
Day trips can be done on your own or via an organized excursion offered by many tour operators. Even though it is a lot to see in one day, Peterhof, Kronshtadt, and Lomonosov are all in the same general direction west of Saint Petersburg and are all accessible by hydrofoil, so it is popular to see all three sites in one day.

Gatchina — Big palace and park in a beautiful village 50km south of Saint Petersburg.
Kronstadt — Old seaport town on Kotlin island, 20 km directly north of Lomonosov. Main Russian naval base from early 18th century. You may take a hydrofoil back to the Hermitage for 400 руб one-way.
Lomonosov (Oranienbaum) — Park with museum honoring Michael Lomonosov. 9km west of Peterhof via the A121 highway. Train station name is Oranienbaum ('Orange tree' in German). TIP - You may also visit Kronstadt and take a hydrofoil back to the Hermitage for 400 руб one-way, an inexpensive alternative to the more expensive ones leaving from Peterhof.
Shlisselburg/Oreshek Fortess — Russian fortress on the Oreshek/Orekhovy Island at the head of Neva, 50 km east of Saint Petersburg. A UNESCO World Heritage Site. The medieval Treaty of Nöteborg was signed here.
Pavlovsk — Lusicous green park where you could feed the squirrels from your hands. Can be reached by train from Vitebskiy station (not the main hall, but the smaller hall for local trains, which is on the right side as you face the station). Pavlovsk train station is close to the northwestern gate to the park, and from there it is a long (but pleasant) walk through the park to the palace.
Peterhof — Home of the sumptuous "Russian Versailles" and to the "Petrodvorets Watch Factory - Raketa" (tours available), 30 km southwest of Saint Petersburg.
Pushkin (Tsarskoye Selo) — 25 km south of Saint Petersburg, with beautiful parks and palaces, most notably the Catherine Palace built for Tsarina Catherine I.
Repino — House-museum of the artist Ilya Repin, just off the Gulf of Finland, where he lived and worked. To get there: Elektrichka train from the Finlandsky Station (45 minutes, round trip fare 120 руб, eleventh stop on the westbound line — check in advance to make sure the train you board stops in Repino — then from the station cross the main road and walk down the path to the left of the supermarket through a resort complex to the next major road. Turn left and walk about 1.5 km to the gate marked Penaty. The walk takes about 45 minutes. The museum and grounds close at 15:00, or earlier if there are no visitors.
Staraya Ladoga — The first capital of Russia is a pleasant little village four hours away with an incredible wealth of historical sights, including its own stone kremlin and church frescoes by the hand of none other than Andrei Rublev.
Vyborg — Town situated on the Karelian Isthmus near the head of the Bay of Vyborg, 130 km to the northwest of St. Petersburg, 38 km south from Russia's border with Finland, where the Saimaa Canal enters the Gulf of Finland. It was one of the main cities of Finland in the Swedish times and again from 1812 until the 1940s. Swedish built castle, started in the 13th century and extensively reconstructed by Russians in 1891–1894. Mon Repos, one of the most spacious English parks in Eastern Europe, laid out in the 19 century. Fortifications of the Mannerheim Line (built by Finland against the Soviet Union) are close by. Now available for day trips with high-speed rail.


=== Overnight trips ===
If you leave Russia and plan to return, make sure you have a multiple entry visa.

Novgorod — Ancient town with churches and museums, 180 km from St. Petersburg, can be accessed by high-speed trains.
Narva, Estonia — 160 km southwest of Saint Petersburg on the Narva river, which serves as the border between Russia and Estonia. Twin castles (Russian, established Grand Duke Ivan III, and Danish/Swedish).
Vologda — this city is considered the heart of Russian North, a popular local travel destination. Reachable by overnight train, from there you can go to Moscow or further north to Arkhangelsk.
Petrozavodsk and the rest of Karelia — popular Russian travel destination for its beautiful nature and access to White Sea islands. Reachable by overnight or high-speed train.
Moscow — the Russian capital is reachable by overnight train or in the daytime by the high-speed Sapsan train (about 4 hr) or by plane. As much to see as in St. Petersburg, so plan on several days here.