Seoul (서울) is the capital of South Korea. With a population of over 9 million (with over 20 million in the wider metropolitan area), Seoul is by far South Korea's largest city and one of East Asia's financial and cultural centers. A fascinating blend of ancient traditions and cutting-edge digital technology, home to endless street food vendors and vast nightlife districts, an extraordinarily high-pressure educational system and serene Buddhist temples, a dynamic trend-setting youth culture and often crushing conformism, extraordinary architecture and endless monotonous rows of grey apartment buildings, Seoul is a city filled with stark contrasts, contradictions, and paradoxes. People in Seoul can enjoy various artistic activities such as plays, musicals, and concerts.


== Districts ==

Administratively, Seoul is divided into 25 districts (구 gu), each with an area and population comparable to a small city. The districts are then further subdivided into 522 sub-districts (동 dong). The Han river splits the city into two halves: Gangbuk (강북), the northern, more historical half, and Gangnam (강남), the southern, wealthier and more modern half. The sheer size of the city means that travelers to Seoul will find it difficult to locate a true "center" of Seoul; instead, Seoul is almost more like a collection of cities that happen to be bunched together, each with their own central business and commercial districts. The two largest core areas are Jongno/Jung in the north, and Gangnam in the south. For travelers with more time, there are many more, smaller centers and districts to be explored, such as the island of Yeoui-do and the college district of Hongdae/Sinchon. For the typical traveler, it would be useful to divide the city into the following areas:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


== Understand ==

With over 10 million people, a figure that doubles if you include neighboring cities and suburbs, Seoul is the largest city in South Korea and unquestionably the economic, political and cultural hub of the nation. By some measures it is the second largest urban agglomeration on the planet, after Greater Tokyo.
Seoul is a favourite with tourists from China, Japan, Southeast Asia, and, increasingly, the West, encouraged by the success of Korean pop culture. Aside from the native Korean, travelers will frequently overhear Japanese, Cantonese or Mandarin as well; many restaurants and stores, especially in the more touristy areas like Myeongdong, will have signs in Japanese and Chinese, as well as Korean and English.
The traveler who visits Seoul will not be disappointed. This sprawling metropolis is truly vast – though the casual traveler can see most of the main sites in a few days, a dedicated traveler could spend months exploring all the alleyways and far-off neighborhoods. As the capital of a country that has gone through massive development in the past sixty years, Seoul is constantly changing at an incredible pace, matched only by the mainland Chinese cities. This frantic pace of life is reflected everywhere – in Seoul's cutting-edge digital technology, in the millions of commuters rushing to work everyday in the world's third largest subway system, in one of the most vibrant nightlife scenes in the world, and in the thousands of high rises and apartment buildings still under construction.


=== History ===
Considering all of this, one may be forgiven for forgetting that Seoul has a long history stretching far back into Korea's dynastic past. There is evidence for settlement in this area as far back as 18 BCE, but Seoul as the capital city of South Korea has a history dating back to the 14th century. Originally named Hanseong (한성; 漢城), the city was the capital of the Joseon Dynasty from 1392 to 1910. The Joseon Dynasty built most of Seoul's most recognisable landmarks, including the Five Grand Palaces and Namdaemun. After the Japanese surrender in 1945, the city was renamed to its current name, Seoul. Since the establishment of the Republic of Korea in 1948, Seoul has been the capital of South Korea. Occupied twice during the Korean War by Communist forces from the North, the city was extensively rebuilt and today is one of Asia's primary metropolises. Much of Seoul's infrastructure and facilities, such as the buildings, stadiums and transport systems, are exceptionally modern and clean.


=== Orientation ===
Seoul is a relatively well organized city covering over 600 square kilometres (230 sq mi) with a population of around 10.5 million. It is a new modern city built on an ancient and shining history. The city is in the north-western portion of South Korea approximately 40 km (25 mi) east of the Yellow Sea (황해 "Hwanghae") and 60 kilometers south of the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ). The city is roughly bisected by the Han River (한강 Hangang), which runs east to west across the city. Seoul blurs seamlessly into its surrounding satellite cities and towns, most of which are also served by the Seoul metro. The largest of these is Incheon (to the west), the home of the metropolitan area's main airport and seaport. Other satellite cities include such as Ilsan (to the north), Bucheon (to the west) and Anyang (to the south).


=== Climate ===

Seoul lies between the subtropical and a humid continental climate zones. November to April tend to be more continental, while warmer months are more subtropical with hot, humid summers. There are an average of 28 days of snow during winter and monsoon conditions in June and July. Summer temperatures generally average around 30 °C (86 °F) during the day and 24 °C (75 °F) at night, with some hotter days up around 33 °C (91 °F) and 26 °C (79 °F) at night or even hotter. The summer humidity can make those temperatures feel more sweltering; it typically feels like 32 °C (90 °F) during the day and 25 °C (77 °F) at night with typical humidity, but extreme humidity and heat can make the hottest, most humid summer days feel more like 41 °C (106 °F) and 28 °C (82 °F) at night; though it still can more hotter and more humid than this.
Daylight in the summer runs from 05:15 to 19:45, and in the winter it is from 07:45 to 17:15.


=== Talk ===

As elsewhere in Korea, a grasp of basic Korean will be helpful. If you plan on an extended visit, consider learning to read the Korean alphabet, hangul. It takes very little time to pick up the basics, and it can be immensely helpful.  A quick (free) visit to the Story of King Sejong Exhibition Hall beneath the Statue of King Sejong in Gwanghwamun Square will give you an introduction to the Korean alphabet and some interactive exhibits to practice. Thirty minutes there will see you recognizing and pronouncing some Korean words.
Shops in major tourists areas, including Insadong, Myeongdong, and Itaewon, will probably have staff that speak at least some English, and some may have staff that speak Mandarin, Cantonese and/or Japanese. While all younger Koreans are required to study English in school, due to a lack of practice, proficiency is generally poor, and most residents of Seoul only know a few simple words and phrases. If lost, a useful tip is to write down your question in simple words and show it to someone young. While it is possible to get by using only English, a basic grasp of Korean will make your trip much smoother.


=== Language issues ===
South Korea has undergone a major English language boom over the past 20 years. South Korean families are eager for their children to learn English and usually enroll them in private language schools.
Seoul is probably the easiest place to talk to people in English, although most people will find conversation challenging. Often writing down simple questions in English is more effective. Many of the older generation have learned little or no English at all. A few tourist information centers dotted around Seoul are staffed by English speakers, but do not assume an English speaker will be available at most shops, sites and venues.
English signage is visible everywhere in the city, from road signs to subway maps to shop posters. One exception is in buses where the route information is completely in Korean script.

 The Seoul Global Center, 3rd Floor of the Seoul Press Center, 25 Taepyeongno 1(il)-ga, Jung-gu, Seoul, ☏ +82 2 1688-0120. Provides foreign language assistance with regard to public services, but also beyond including help with awkward coping necessities like purchasing a mobile phone. 


=== Visitor information ===
Visit Seoul website


== Get in ==


=== By plane ===
Seoul (SEL  IATA for all airports) is served by two airports; Incheon International Airport serves most international flights, while Gimpo Airport mostly serves as Seoul's domestic airport, plus a smattering of international routes to China, Japan and Taiwan. 


==== Incheon Airport ====

Most visitors arrive via 1 Incheon International Airport (ICN IATA) on Yeongjong Island in the neighboring city of Incheon.
The A'REX train connects the airport to Seoul Station (for further connections to KTX high-speed services) and Gimpo Airport (most domestic flights), operating from 05:20 until 00:00. Two versions exist: express services to the city (every 40 minutes) take 43 minutes and cost ₩9,000 (with WiFi available on board); while commuter services (every 6 minutes) take 53 minutes and cost ₩3,700. The express train and the regular train leave from different platforms and have different ticket booths. The express service offers discounts to passengers with flight or train tickets for the same day, as well as returning passengers with a ticket issued within the past 15 days.
If, however, you have a lot of luggage or are heading to southern parts of Seoul (e.g. Gangnam), the airport buses remain your best option.
A taxi direct to Seoul will cost around ₩50,000/70,000 regular/deluxe.


==== Gimpo Airport ====
2 Gimpo Airport (김포국제공항, GMP  IATA). Closer but older. Caters only to the shuttle services to Taipei-Songshan, Tokyo-Haneda Airport, Osaka-Kansai, Beijing Capital International Airport and Shanghai-Hongqiao, as well as domestic flights within South Korea, mostly to Jeju.    
Gimpo Airport is easily reached on the A'REX link from Seoul Station or Incheon Airport, as well as subway lines 5 and 9. All lines intersect Line 2 which runs in a large circle through Seoul. Line 9 (Gold Line), the first privately run subway line in Seoul, has express trains as well. Travelers coming into Seoul should first have detailed directions to their destination from the nearest station then consult the subway map before deciding on which line and route to take. All three lines cost ₩1,000-2,100 (depending on distance), while a taxi to central Seoul will run around ₩30,000. Discounts for subway fare are available with T-Money cards.


=== By train ===

Seoul is the northern terminus for most KTX high-speed train services. There are three main stations within city limits:

3 Seoul Station  (서울역) for trains heading Southeast (Busan, Pohang, Daegu, Daejeon, Changwon) and few heading East (Pyeongchang, Gangneung, Donghae) depart here. Accessible via subway line  1 ,  4 ,  Gyeongui-jungang , as well as the  AREX  (from Incheon International Airport and Gimpo International Airport). The Gyeongui line uses a separate platform in the old station building (Culture Station 284). Some trains bound Southwest depart from Seoul station as well.
4 Yongsan Station  (용산역) is the main terminus for trains heading Southwest (Mokpo, Gwangju, Daejeon, Yeosu). Metro lines  1  and  Gyeongui-jungang  pass through the station. Line 4 is at the nearby 5 Sinyongsan station , about 150m away.
6 Cheongnyangni Station  (청량리역) serves trains heading east, including all KTX trains bound for Pyeongchang, Gangneung, Donghae, and Andong. Subway line  1  and  Gyeongui-jungang  line stops here, with few trains from  Suin - Bundang  and  Gyeongchun  line.
Some KTX trains heading south stop at 7 Yeongdeungpo Station  (영등포역, accessible via subway line  1 ), and some heading east stop at 8 Sangbong Station  (상봉역, accessible via subway line  7 ,  Gyeongui-jungang  and  Gyeongchun  line). Train stopping at Yeongdeungpo takes longer because they use conventional tracks.
9 Suseo Station  (수서역)  in the city's southwest is the terminus for SRT trains from Busan, Daegu, Gwangju, and Mokpo. It is also about 15% cheaper than the KTX. Subway line  3  and  Suin - Bundang  line stop at the station. GTX train has been added to Suseo Station, so people can move Guseong and Suseo in 15 minutes. The subway system also serves as a commuter rail network for nearby cities and towns in Gyeonggi.
 2 Gangnam Station, (강남역) (Line  2 ). Take airport line at terminal 2, change from Gimpo Aiport Station(line 9), and get off at Shinnonhyeon station. It takes 1 and half hours.
Remember that for all KTX services, reservations are mandatory and included in the price. This means trains do sell out - even the few standing tickets offered on some routes - and there might be no possibility to travel on the dense Seoul-Busan line on weekends without booking at least a week ahead.


=== By bus ===
Every weekend approximately 2 million Seoulites leave the city, which goes a long way to explaining why the city has four major bus terminals. Destinations are not strictly divided by terminals (especially intercity buses), so check the exact terminal and schedule on the website (Express, Intercity)

10 Seoul Express Bus Terminal , (서울고속버스터미널), (Metro Lines  3 ,  7 , or  0 , Express Bus Terminal stn).  Also known as Gangnam Terminal and Gyeongbu-Yeongdong Terminal, this is the largest of them all and serves pretty much the entire country, but most services head Southeast (incl. Busan, Daegu, Daejeon). Lines Southwest to Jeolla, however, use the Central City/Honam Terminal right next door. For the most part there's no need to buy a ticket days in advance, except during the holidays. There's even a ticket window labeled "Tickets for Foreigners" where the attendant can speak English. Fare from Seoul-Busan is about ₩20,000 and buses come continuously throughout the day. Small restaurants and snacks are all throughout the station. Journeys longer than 2 hours typically will have a short stop at a rest area. Most buses are very comfortable and extremely safe.
11 Central City Terminal , (센트럴시티터미널), also known as Honam Terminal, (Metro Lines  3 ,  7 , or  0 , Express Bus Terminal stn).  Directly adjacent to the Express terminal, serves express buses heading Southeast to North and South Jeolla, South Chungcheong, and some routes to Daejeon and North Chungcheong.
12 Dong Seoul Bus Terminal , (동서울버스터미널), Gangbyeon stn (Line  2 ). Served mostly by intercity buses. Most intercity buses to Gangwon and other parts of Korea departs here. It is heavily used by soldiers heading to the military bases in Gangwon. You can find restaurants, convenience stores, a cafe, a pharmacy, a bakery, and a nursing room here. There's even an underground shopping mall to kill time.
13 Nambu Bus Terminal, (남부터미널), Nambu Bus Terminal stn (Line  3 ). Served mostly by intercity buses. Most intercity buses to Southeast to North and South Jeolla and other parts of Korea departs here.
14 Gangnam Station, (강남역) (Line  2 ). Take an Airport Limousine Bus number 6009. It takes 80 minutes from Airport terminal 1 and 100 minutes from Airport terminal 2. It is better to take subway who depart from Airport terminal 2(See By train section).


=== By boat ===
There are ferry services to various points in China from the neighboring port city of Incheon. No services run from Japan to Seoul; many Koreans take the coach, KTX or SRT trains to Busan, where several ferry and hydrofoil options are available.


=== By car ===
No matter where in Korea you start your journey, there will be tolled expressways (Gosok Doro) and national highways (Gook Do) that lead to Seoul; the most important one is the Gyeongbu Expressway, linking Seoul with Busan. To avoid the daily traffic jam on the Gyeongbu Highway near Seoul, take Jungbu/2nd Jungbu, Seohaean, or Yongin-Seoul Expressway. On Korean highways, the first lane is used as a passing lane. No matter how fast you're going, it's not okay to keep driving in the lane.


== Get around ==
Traffic jams are all too common in Seoul, so be careful on the streets and head underground when possible. Street and subway signage is usually written in English as well as Korean.
Until 2011, Seoul (and South Korea as a whole) used an address system that was similar to that of Japan, where the streets did not have names and houses were numbered according to the position in the lot. This very confusing address system made it harder for tourists to navigate Seoul, and the government has introduced a Road Name Address System, which uses street names and the method of "odd house numbers on one side, even house numbers on the other side". The confusing old address system was discontinued in 2013, and nowadays, Seoul is easy to get around without extra help.
The 'Climate Card' (Gihoo Donghaeng Card) offers unlimited rides on subways and buses within Seoul for a fixed monthly fee.


=== By subway ===

In Seoul, you can visit most places by using the vast subway network. There are nine numbered lines plus a smattering of named suburban lines, all distinguished by different colors. All signs in the subway system are in Korean (both hangeul and if applicable, hanja) and English, as well as Japanese and Mandarin in some stations. The signs leading to the platform for a particular direction of travel on a given subway line typically list the names of a number of stations in that direction. Stations each have a 3 digit number, but locals rarely make use of these numbers, and they're not on most subway maps, so don't rely on them. An English subway map can be found here.
Subway fares are based on the distance traveled, but the shortest ride costs ₩1,250 (base charge) plus a deposit of ₩500 for single-ride cards (refundable if you return the card at designated machines at each station). The base charge roughly covers up to 10 km (6.2 mi) of the journey and ₩100 is added for every 5 km (3.1 mi) beyond that. Cards can be purchased from vending machines only. All vending machines accept coins and bills, up to ₩10,000 notes (and some ₩50,000 notes, but cash exchange machines are at each station). Hang onto your card until the end of your trip, as you'll need it to get out. Most of Seoul's automated card machines are equipped with touchscreen and full English support (along with Chinese and Japanese). 
Note that the subway does not operate late at night but there are night bus services on major trunk routes.


==== T-money card ====
If planning on using the Metro extensively or staying for more than a couple of days, you should consider purchasing a T-money stored value contactless smart card. You can buy this card from staffed desks at most subway stations, very few vending machines (cash only), many newspaper kiosks near subway entrances, and convenience stores with the T-money logo. The most basic card costs ₩5,000 as of 2025, and cash can be added to the card as often as you like (which has to be done separately after purchasing one, it does not come with stored value). Top-ups are only possible using cash, most conveniently at machines at every station entrance, which do have English as a language option.
When entering and leaving a subway turnstile, place the card on the reader (leaving it inside your purse or wallet is fine), and it will deduct the appropriate fare from the card. Using this card will allow you to save ₩100 on all transfers (these are common with Seoul's extensive subway system), and you can get all but ₩500 back if you have unused credit. Any value on the T-money card never expires. Credit refund up to ₩20,000 can be received in most convenience stores. Above ₩20,000 you can still get a refund, but the procedure is more complicated, so it's wise to keep your credit below that figure.
Typically for most travellers staying less than a week in Seoul, purchasing this card may not be cheaper, but other factors should be considered: it can also be used for taxi fares, buses, storage lockers, pay phones, etc. The T-money card is far more convenient than buying per trip ticket. Using a transportation card is highly recommended if you wish to use it between subways and buses, simply for its ability to transfer for free since you will not have to pay for the basic fare twice for a single journey when using two modes of transport. 
Be aware that any issues (e.g. insufficient balance) are not displayed in English at the turnstiles. Only the error code is shown in Latin letters. The different error codes are listed at the metro website.
Here are some things to know when riding the subway.

Some stations have a similar names, so be sure to check the map and destination. For example, Sinchon subway station (Line 2) is located far from Sinchon rail station (Gyeongui-Jungang Line) and both are not transferable. And Yangpyeong subway station (Line 5) is in Seoul, but Yangpyeong rail station (Gyeongui-Jungang Line) is located at Yangpyeong, Gyeonggi-do (about 50 km away).
At the edge of the train car, there are specially marked seats for the elderly and disabled people. It is de facto mandatory to leave this seat for others, unless you really need them, so be aware of surrounding passengers when you occupy empty ones Also, some trains have pink seats for pregnant women which are generally left empty.
Some terminus stations and branch lines like the Gyeongui-Jungang Line between Gajwa and Seoul Station have very, very few trains, sometimes less than one per hour. Be sure to check the timetables beforehand. Also, the platform for Gyeongui-Jungang Line at Seoul Station is separated from the other lines, in the old station building.
There is also a separate class of commuter trains in Seoul. Lines 1, 4, 9, and several others do operate 'express (급행)' services. They are slightly faster, skipping several stops and passing normal service trains. No extra fees are required to use them. Line 1 also has a 'limited express (특급)' service, which makes even fewer stops. Same fare.
Seoul Metro (Operator of lines 1 to 8) has some info on their 'Theme Tour' section. You can check the timetable there as well.
You cannot use metro stations for crossing streets when you have to pass the fare-gates. If you enter a metro station and leave at another exit, the fare for a single ride will be deducted. If you entered a metro station at the wrong side by accident and return the card will be blocked (or in case of a T-money card the fare for a single ride will be deducted) even if you exited at the same turnstile.
Several fare-gates seem to be always open, do not try to pass them without presenting your ticket though - they have somewhat hidden doors that will (hurtfully) snap closed in an instant.


=== By bus ===
Seoul also has an extensive bus network. There are four different kinds of buses: yellow, green, blue, and red. Yellow buses have a short circuit usually around tourist areas. Green buses travel around neighborhoods and connect with the subway. Blue buses go across town, while red buses are intercity buses. Buses will only stop at designated bus stops and will not wait for indecisive travelers. Press the red button to tell the driver to stop at the next stop.
By using a T-Money card, you can transfer between the bus and the subway for free up to 30 minutes after your last scan. That is to say, the base charge won't be charged twice. If, for example, you travel 10 km (6.2 mi) by subway, transfer to a bus and travel a further 5 km (3.1 mi), the fare will be deducted once you leave the subway, nothing will be deducted when you enter a bus, but you will be deducted ₩100 for the extra 5 km (3.1 mi) journey you made on the bus. If you do not tag the machine as you leave the bus, you will be charged the maximum fare possible for the route.
Adult fares as of March 2023 are:

from ₩1,200 to ₩1,500 for T-Money Card.
and from 1,300 to 1,500 for cash.
In particular, local buses traveling to Seoul from other provinces (mainly Gyeonggi-do and Incheon) will increase from ₩2,300 to ₩3,000 with a transportation card and from ₩2,400 to ₩3,000 with cash.


==== By Late Night Bus ====
South Korea has late-night buses called owl buses. Late night buses are characterized by an N in front of the bus number. The fare is ₩2,500 (cash/card) for adults. See here for further info.


=== By taxi ===

Deluxe taxis are black with a yellow sign and are more expensive than regular taxis but provide better and more comfortable service. Regular taxis are silver. For the most part, regular taxi cabs have leather interiors and the drivers are nice—so, for many people, "regular" in Seoul might be "deluxe" in their hometown. It is easy to hail a taxi any time of the day or night along any relatively major Seoul street.
You can call a deluxe taxi wherever you are by calling 3431–5100. Sometimes, you can find a visitor's guide taxi, a kind of deluxe taxi, the drivers of which know English and Japanese and can guide you around Seoul.
As of February 2023, the basic fare for regular taxis is ₩4,800 (₩5,800 at night), with a surcharge of ₩100 applied according to time and distance. (The basic fare is up to 2 km (1.2 mi), plus ₩100 per 132 m.) In deluxe taxis, the basic fare is ₩7000 and the additional fare increases in increments of ₩200. (₩4500 basic fare for up to 3 km (1.9 mi), plus ₩200 per 151 m). International taxi drivers speak at least one foreign language (generally English) fluently.  International taxis use the same basic fare as regular taxis, plus an additional 20%.
The base distance has also been reduced from 2 kilometers to 1.6 kilometers, and late-night surcharges have also increased significantly, from 20% to 40% from 11pm to 2am.
If there is more than one passenger, and you are traveling only a short distance (like 1-2 metro stops) it is usually cheaper to catch a taxi than to take a bus or subway.
In general, taxi drivers do not speak English or any other foreign language (e.g. Japanese), so have your destination written in Korean to show to the taxi driver. It is also wise to get your hotel's business card in case you get lost.
All taxis advertise a free interpretation service that can be called if you need help. The phone number for the interpretation is on the window sticker of the back seats. Taxis that have an "On Base Authorized" sticker on the side, or a green sticker on their front bumper, are capable of entering US military bases in Seoul. These drivers are required to speak better English as part of their contract and may thus be easier for any English speaking tourists.
All taxis in Seoul accept credit cards and T-money cards. However, drivers generally prefer that you pay cash, especially for shorter rides. You can also ask for your receipt ("Yeong-su-jeung" 영수증).
As in any other city, there are some bad apples, and some drivers may take you the long way. Although the drivers often have a GPS device on the dashboard of their car, this is relatively meaningless if you do not know the area or cannot speak sufficient Korean to argue the point.
In general, make sure the driver turns on the meter, get an idea of the cardinal direction of your destination (north, south, east, west), and use the interpretation service if you want to agree to a fare beforehand.
However, there is often road construction or protests around Seoul, so sometimes a long route is necessary. If you suspect you are being ripped off, the most a non-Korean speaker can do is write down or take a picture of the driver's ID (above the glove box) and report the details to the company.


=== By Ride Share ===
Uber (branded as Uber Taxi) is widely available throughout Seoul and can also be used to hail regular taxis. Note however that payment with Apple or Google Pay is not possible, at least with foreign cards - adding your credit card directly into the Uber app works though.


=== By car ===

Internationally known car rental companies can be found in Seoul; just be prepared for a driving challenge and long rush hours. In addition, parking spaces are hard, if not close to impossible to find, especially during peak hours. Therefore, unless you are planning to head out of the city, it is not advisable to rent a car and you are better off relying on the excellent public transport system instead.


=== On bicycle ===
There are many bike rental stations in Seoul (and other cities). Seoul City government operates Seoul Bike (nicknamed 따릉이 (Ttareungyi)), and you can get around easily at little cost. There are many voucher options, but a day voucher is enough for most tourists. At the homepage or official app, purchase the voucher and receive the rental number. At the nearby rental spot, press the button on the bike you want to rent and type the digits. You have to return the bike to the rental station within 1 hour (2 hours if you bought the Premium voucher). You can rent it as many times as you want for 24 hours, as long as you return the bike for respective period of time. A regular voucher is ₩1,000 and a premium one is ₩2,000.
Be sure to obey the traffic rules and try to wear a helmet. Read the warnings on the signage and ride with care. The official app shows the location of rental station and how many bikes are there, so plan your journey while knowing where to return. Naver map or Kakao map can show the bike routes and have a direction search option for bikes. If you know the Korean, you can use the weekly, monthly, and yearly option.
There are also private bike rentals at Han river park and Yeoido. They offer electric bikes, two-person bikes, and four-person bike. These bikes usually cost around ₩5,000 per hour.


=== On shared electric scooters ===
Shared electric scooters are available for rent with a driver's license. It is mandatory to wear a helmet and you can be fined by the police if you don't. Rates vary by scooter manufacturer, but you can expect to pay roughly ₩300–500 to unlock and ₩1,000–1,200 per minute of use (June 2024).
You have to download the app released by each manufacturer and use it after authentication. A shared mobility company called SWING has launched shared scooters. SWING charges

Daytime: ₩1,200 to unlock, ₩180 won per minute
Night: ₩1,200 won to unlock, ₩250 won per minute


=== On foot ===
Getting around in Seoul without a local escort (be it friend or cab driver) can be tricky, since this is one of the most densely populated cities in the world. While Seoul occupies less land than New York City, it can be more confusing. The major roads twist and turn, the various rail lines, rivers and mountains are obstacles and the smaller roads turn into a labyrinth of alleys. Learn the landmarks and subway station closest to where you are staying. The better-known landmarks in Seoul (such as the N Seoul Tower in the center of town) can prove helpful at times. Google Maps cannot be used to navigate in Seoul due to laws forbidding use of geographical information by foreign companies, it will display a "no routes found" message, however regular map functions are working. Use Naver map or Kakao map, since these support English and offer very well working navigation on foot and by car, including public transportation.
Once you know your immediate surroundings, you'll find that Seoul isn't such a huge place and the pedestrian approach can be an enriching experience. There's usually a subway stop within a ten-minute walk in any direction. And you can see the local map at the exit of the station.
Whether on bicycle or foot, the best way to escape traffic is to learn the rivers and streams. Most of these waterways empty into the Han River or another tributary to the Han, so look to the direction of water flow at any creek; chances are, it's headed for the Han. The Han runs right through town, generally moving West (sometimes Southwest; sometimes Northwest), so knowing where you are in relation to the Han is helpful. The Han River as well as most streams are lined with massive parks that feature outdoor gymnasiums, multiple-lane bicycle paths, and 24-hour restrooms. Pedestrian bridges on the smaller waterways are common. Also, numerous mountains with hiking trails can be found in the city.


== See ==
Individual listings can be found in Seoul's district articles

Seoul is a vast, vibrant cityscape, set against an airy backdrop of mountains. It includes a standout collection of attractions with a blend of old and new.
While Seoul today is mostly known as a super-modern mega-city that is home to skyscrapers, malls, and millions of electronic-mad Koreans, the city contains over 2,000 years of history. The city contains 4 UNESCO sites marking important monuments from its 505 years as the capital of the Joseon Dynasty. Originally a walled city with 20 ft (6.1 m) stone walls and narrow lanes inside. Though many buildings were destroyed or damaged during the violent events of the first half of the 20th century, much of its historic core remains. So, anyone staying in Seoul should visit the many historical treasures the city has to offer, including the many palaces and city gates within the Jongno district.


=== Palaces, shrines, and walls of Joseon Dynasty and other traditional sites ===
Seoul has been a capital of Korea since the Joseon Dynasty. Starting from the Gyeongbokgung, many palaces were built for kings and royal family. The most important of them are called Five Grand Palaces (5대궁). Gyeongbokgung Palace is the grandest and most important palace, and is also the site of the Joseon Palace Museum and Korean Folk Museum. The main gate of the palace, Gwanghwamun, and its plaza are the center of Seoul. Changdeokgung, a  UNESCO World Heritage Site, was the most favored residential palace of the Joseon Royal Family. It also has the beautiful garden named Secret Garden (Also was called 'Forbidden Garden'). Changgyeonggung and Gyeonghuigung are less famous due to extensive damage sustained after the fall of the Joseon Dynasty; Changgyeonggung was once a zoo, and Gyeonghuigung was once a high school. Finally, Deoksugung was used during the last years of the monarchy. It has a harmony of both traditional and western building design. All of these palaces have a thicker, more informative pamphlet for ₩500, which is worth the cost. 

Gyeongbokgung Palace. In 1-91, Sejongno, Jongno-gu. The Gyeongbokgung, which means "Palace Greatly Blessed by Heaven.", was built in 1395 in Joseon Dynasty. It was the heart of Joseon Dynasty because the government ministry district was focused here. Even after it was razed by the Japanese during Hideyoshi invasions of 1592–1598, it was reconstructed in 1876, only for many buildings to be razed again by the Japanese during the occupation from 1910–1945. Nevertheless, Gyeongbokgung remains one of the most magnificent and historically most significant places in Seoul, and restoration to its pre-Japanese occupation state continues to be take place at a painstaking pace. It opens everyday except Tuesday. There is also a free guide tour for tourists every day (English : 11:00, 13:30, 15:30). It is also good to take the opportunity of night opening, which is held a few days every a year, you have to reserve a place online. You can access the palace by subway (Gyeongbokgung Palace station Exit 5, Subway line 3) or Seoul City Tour Bus.
There are several traditional spots in Seoul besides palaces. Jongmyo Shrine is where the kings of the Joseon Dynasty are enshrined, and the Jongmyo Jerye ceremony, in which descendants of the Joseon royal family honor their ancestors, is held here every year. Jogyesa Temple and Bongeunsa Temple are notable Buddhist temples for experiencing Korean Buddhism.


=== Parks and mountains ===

Seoul is full of parks. Along the Han River (Hangang, 한강), there are Hangang Citizen's Park. It is in many districts, and each have a distinct spots. You can cycle along the river or buy a snack or souvenir at the night market. Among those, Banpo Hangang Park is most famous. You can see the fountain on the Banpo bridge, go to Some Sevit (an artificial floating island), or exercise at the Seorae island.
There are several unique parks that were repurposed from other uses. Seoul Forest was changed from a racecourse to a park with deer and a greenhouse. Olympic Park was built on ancient fortification walls, and holds many venues used in the 1988 Olympics. Worldcup Park was a landfill, but was turned into a large park with a soccer stadium, and is famous for silver grass. Seonyudo Park was a water filtration plant and was changed to ecological park above the remnants of old tanks and reservoirs. Other famous parks include  Children's Grand Park and Dream Forest. Haneul Park is one of the largest parks in Seoul. 
Seoul is also surrounded by many mountains (san, 산). You can hike along the people and feel the nature in the middle of city. Notable mountains are Namsan (남산), Gwanaksan (관악산), Bukhansan (북한산), Suraksan (수락산).

 Hangang Citizen's Park. Alongside the Han River through 13 districts: Gwangnaru, Jamsil, Gangdong, Ttukseom, Jamwon, Banpo, Ichon, Yeouido, Yanghwa, Mangwon, Seonyudo, Nanji, and Gangseojigu. You can see many people strolling or jogging along the trail paths, as well as in-line skaters, bicyclists, and soccer fields or basketball courts. Yeouido, Jamsil, and Ttukseom districts are especially popular because of the cruise services on the Han River. 
Naksan Park. Naksan Park is the old city street of Hanyang Castle. Nowadays, you can enjoy the scenery by climbing up the city road like a park, and you can also use the Especially, the lights installed on the city road and the panoramic view of the city. It is considered a popular night view spot in Seoul.


=== Notable museums ===
Seoul has been a capital for more than 600 years, and has a lot of museums. The most important museum is definitely National Museum of Korea at Yongsan. This houses the highlight of 5,000 years of Korean history and its exquisite treasures. Other historical museums include National Museum of Korean Contemporary History, National Folk Museum, Joseon Palace Museum at Jongno.
If you are fan of art, there are many art museums as well. Seoul Museum of Art is near the city hall and is free. National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Arts, which used to be at Gwacheon, has a separate Seoul branch near Bukchon and inside the Duksugung Palace. Leeum Museum at Itaewon is one of the best private-owned museums in Korea, and the Dongdaemun Design Plaza hosts the exhibition from Kansong Museum.
There are other interesting museums in the city; War memorial of Korea houses military armor and aircraft, National Hangul Museum shows the history of Korean writing system, Seodaemun Prison preserves the actual prison used during the Japanese Colonization period.


== Do ==
Individual listings can be found in Seoul's district articles
Enjoy hiking in the mountains around the city. Up to 800m (3,000 ft) is accessible by public transport, with courses ranging from easy to difficult. There are Bukhansan Mountain, Gwanaksan Mountain, Samseongsan Mountain, Inwangsan Mountain, etc. (Mostly [Seoul/North]). If you don't like mountains, walk along Cheonggyecheon Stream.
Watch baseball, a national sport, at Gocheok Sky Dome in Guro-gu, the home of the Kiwoom Heroes, or Jamsil Baseball Stadium in Songpa-gu, the home of the LG Twins and Doosan Bears.
Watch local soccer teams (FC Seoul based at Mapo-gu World Cup Stadium and Seoul E-Land FC based at Songpa-gu Olympic Main Stadium).
In South Korea, indoor sports are practiced until dawn. Golf and baseball on indoor screens, beer and bowling under upbeat music and lights.
Order jjajangmyeon and tangsuyuk for delivery and play pool.

Nerd activities in Seoul


== Learn ==


=== Universities ===
Seoul is home to many universities, including Seoul National University, Yonsei University and Korea University, the three most prestigious universities in Korea, with the former being Korea's uncontested number one university. Admission to them is extremely competitive for South Korean students, but considerably easier for foreigners provided your Korean language ability is up to scratch. There are opportunities for potential international and exchange students to enroll in these universities and live in Seoul for an extended period of time. Many of these universities also conduct Korean language classes for foreigners, including some 5-week long summer intensive programmes that might be useful for short-term visitors to learn the Korean language.


=== Pottery ===
Korean ceramics are known around the world for their simple beauty and unique designs. Visitors can learn how to make pottery at the National Museum of Korea and the pottery villages just outside of Seoul in Incheon and Yeoju.

1 National Museum of Korea (국립중앙박물관) (Ichon Station, Exit 2. 10 minute walk), ☏ +82 2 2077 9000. For class times, inquire in advance.  


=== Sports ===
 Taekwondo Gym. 


== Work ==
There is an immense demand for EFL (English as a Foreign Language) instruction in Seoul.  See South Korea#Work for details. However, the Seoul municipal government has decided to phase out foreign (non-Korean) teachers of English in all public schools. Although it has yet to be seen whether this will succeed, it may have an effect on your options in Seoul.


== Buy ==
Individual listings can be found in Seoul's district articles


=== Malls ===
Seoul features some of the largest malls in Asia, including COEX Mall and Lotte World Mall, both east of Gangnam. They all offer a wide range of Korean and international brands with a focus on a more upscale selection. During weekends, they tend to get very crowded. Additionally, there are several very large department stores scattered throughout the city which provide a comparatively large selection on up to 12 floors.


=== Fashion ===
Fashion shopping in Seoul isn't a mere industry, it's an art form. Trends often begin in University areas like Hongdae. Hongik University boasts Korea's most famous art school, thus fashion in this area is often influenced by the students' artistic sensibilities. The shops in this area feature funky, punky, boho, and vintage style. Ewha Women's University also has a big shopping area in front of its main gate, as do many of the Women's colleges. Many trends also originate here. There are even seamstresses who can help you make your own designs come to life.
Seongsu also is rapidly becoming the center of fashion in Seoul. It was once an industrial complex, but now it's home to new fashions such as hip-hop, reggae, vintage, and gukdu, as the abandoned factories have been redecorated by young people. Nearby is Ttukseom Hangang Park, where you can enjoy Korea's famous fried chicken and beer. 


=== Duty free ===
South Korea is a major shopping destination for Chinese and Japanese these days, with many dedicated duty-free shops available in Seoul. Korean Won, Japanese Yen and US dollars are accepted, along with major credit cards. Most shops have staff who can speak Japanese. There are duty-free shops in both the Incheon airport and the major department stores: Lotte, Shilla Hotel. There are other duty-free shops at Walkerhill Hotel, SKM DFS in COEX Mall.


== Eat ==
Individual listings can be found in Seoul's district articles

Much of Korean social life revolves around food and the city is packed with restaurants, so you would have to be determined to starve to death in Seoul. This fate may still befall you if you insist on English menus and meals consisting only of easily identifiable, familiar ingredients, so see South Korea#Eat for a quick Korean menu reader. An alternative is to just point and eat, your hosts generally will accommodate. If you look in the right places, a good meal (lunch or dinner) including side dishes can cost ₩5,000 or less (try basements of large department stores).

In addition to Korean food, Japanese restaurants in Seoul tend to be excellent, featuring excellent sushi and sashimi. Chinese restaurants exist, but are typically adapted to suit local preferences. There are a few Italian restaurants; these are generally excellent, with chefs trained in Italy, although flavors tend to be more or less Koreanized, with sugar in the garlic bread and meatballs.
Bakeries are found throughout, including some of the common big chains.
Seoul has plenty of budget places to eat. Everything from convenience store junk food and noodles to street stall food and lots of 24 hr Korean fast food restaurants. The 24-hour restaurants are great because they've usually got a wide variety of foods, including: mandu, odeng, ddeokbokki, naengmyeon, udong and ramyeon. Prices do vary from about ₩2,000-9,000 at these restaurants. Also open late into the night are Korean BBQ restaurants, which are everywhere in Seoul.  These can be very cheap and are usually of good quality.  Barbecue options usually are limited to pork and beef, and they often come with a smattering of side dishes. Korean BBQ is, in itself, an experience that makes you feel like a Seoulite. The larger department stores in the city have basement food courts that offer excellent food (not recommended if you care about atmosphere).
Don't be surprised if you find yourself with 5 plates even though you only ordered one, most main dishes are served banchan, side dishes such as kimchi, fermented vegetables with spices, and soup to rinse your palate before and/or after eating. While this is great, this could also be the reason why some restaurants doesn't accept solo dining, especially in Korean BBQ, since the portions might be too much for a single person; always make sure to ask if it's ok to eat alone by telling them “han myung” – a table for one person. 
Public trash bins around Seoul are rare. If you're eating street food, you can hand back leftover trash, like skewers, to the food vendors or throw it away in their trash bags. Some leave a box for trash in front of their stand. Other places to find trash bins are restrooms and convenience stores.


== Drink ==
Individual listings can be found in Seoul's district articles
Seoul features a mind-bogglingly large array of nightspots catering to every taste and budget. Hongdae and Sinchon in Seodaemun-Mapo are Seoul's most active nightlife districts. Itaewon in Yongsan is Seoul's international district, with a wide variety of Western-styled venues to eat and drink. Since many foreigners congregate there, Itaewon remains somewhat of a niche nightlife area for Koreans interested in a more international scene. Itaewon is also home to the highest concentration of gay bars in Seoul, in an alleyway known as "Homo Hill". Much nightlife in Seoul revolves around soju. Soju is a traditional Korean spirit that comes in many varieties, including original and many kinds of fruit-flavored soju.


== Sleep ==
Individual listings can be found in Seoul's district articles
Seoul has two unofficial backpacker districts, Jongno (Anguk/Sinseol-dong) to the northeast of the city and Hongdae-Sinchon out to the west. Within walking distance to Dongdaemun Market, Jongno is better located for sightseeing and can be reached directly from Incheon Airport on limousine buses or city bus 6002 to Sinseol-dong stop (₩9,000, 90 min).
There are many budget accommodation places across Seoul. Hongdae, Itaewon, Myeongdong and Jongno (Hanok area) are traditional hot spots for Foreign Individual Travelers (FIT). Furthermore, Gangnam is emerging thanks to the huge success of the eponymous song.
Hongdae, Sinchon area is in university area. Yonsei Univ., Ehwa woman's Univ., Hongik Univ. and Sogang Univ. are around this area. so there are many restaurants, bar, club and shopping center and easy to be reached from Incheon Airport by limousine bus and Arex (Airport express train) in 1 hour.
Gangnam has a wide range of luxury with the Imperial Palace Hotel, the Park Hyatt Seoul and the Ritz-Carlton Seoul.
Most points of interest are along subway lines 1, 2, 3, and 4. So it's best to reside somewhere near a station on one or two of those lines.


== Connect ==
Internet cafes known as PC bang (PC 방) (pr: pee-shee-bang) are ubiquitous in Seoul, and usually cost anywhere from ₩800–2,000/hr.

Most have printers at the front desk. These places cater chiefly to gamers, which translates into fairly fast computers, loud sound systems and large screens. Most PC Bangs have smoking sections. Typically, the computers run a Korean version of Windows 7 or 10 and use Internet Explorer and Chrome. That said, there is a variety of Wi-Fi networks available, and there is free access to the internet almost everywhere.
Console gaming (Xbox 360, PS3) is widely available, and for those with proficiency in Korean language, you might also be able to enjoy a round of online gaming; the fantasy MMORPG Lineage was created in Korea, and a slew of MMORPG titles not available anywhere else can be found here.
Post offices are basically everywhere in Seoul, although many are hidden on smaller roads and alleys. If you cannot spot any post office nearby, it is good idea to visit a university (most universities have post offices). The Korean postal insignia is orange and white. It can be spotted on post office signs. Most post offices sell boxes and packing materials. Even the smaller offices typically have at least one English-speaking member of staff.

 Seoul Central Post Office (서울중앙우체국), 21-1 Chungmuro 1(il)-ga, Jung-gu (Line 4 Hoehyun stn exit #7). M-F 09:00-18:00. Also has a big philately section in basement. 
 Gwanghwamun Post Office (광화문우체국), 154-1 Seorin-dong, Jongno-gi (Line 5 Gwanghwanun stn). M-F 09:00-20:00 (and holidays). 
 Seoul Gangnam Post Office (서울강남우체국). M-F 09:00-18:00, Sa 09:00-13:00. 
Useful contact numbers are as follows:

 Police, ☏ 112. 
 Fire Department, ☏ 119. 
 Travel Information, ☏ 1330. 
 City Information (다산콜센터), ☏ 120. 


== Stay safe ==
Seoul is a remarkably safe city despite its size, comparable in safety to Hong Kong or Tokyo. Pickpocketing is not very common and violent crime is very rare. There are very few places where CCTV cameras are absent.
Smoking is allowed only in designated areas. Walking while smoking can incur a fine.
If you happen to be a non-Korean man walking hand-in-hand with a Korean woman, drunk older Korean men might give you a tongue lashing or occasionally worse. This is far less of a problem than it used to be.
If you do end up in a fight and the attacker gets hurt, the fact that you didn't start the fight may not give you legal protection.
Do not try to use drones to take pictures in Seoul, because most of the city (especially north of Han river) is a restricted flight area. 
Unfortunately, crimes by American soldiers against Koreans do happen, and when they do they often receive a huge amount of national attention. If you are a Westerner then you should exercise some extra care when such a case hits the media, although it is still highly unlikely you would be in any danger.

Protesting: Large-scale demonstrations against the government happen from time to time. Often they can result in violence where there are pitched battles between protesters and combat police. People do get seriously hurt, so try to avoid getting too close to the action.
Fake monks have been known to operate in Seoul, notably around the Jogyesa temple. They are dressed as Buddhist monks requesting donations from people on the street in return for blessings, although they do not actually belong to any Buddhist order and just keep the cash for themselves. Actual monks would never seek donations in this manner. If you want to donate money, put it into the donation box in temples.
Scams: Be wary of Korean people randomly coming to teach you about Korean culture and inviting you to try a Korean tradition in their studio. They tend to be very friendly to foreigners, offer to try a traditional Korean outfit and see a real-life Korean ceremony and then ask for money during or after it is done.


== Cope ==


=== Medical ===
Pharmacies are everywhere in Seoul. While most are labeled only in Korean, the signage and Hangul character is easy to recognize, 약. Most pharmacists speak some English. Pharmacists are not shy about asking about your symptoms and selling you what they think you need. South Korea is a country where the lights never go out at night, but most pharmacies close at night. If you're feeling sick late at night, don't hesitate to head to a convenience store, where you can buy over-the-counter medications like Tylenol.

 Medical Referral Service, ☏ +82 10 4769-8212, medicalreferral@seoul.go.kr. 24 hours daily. Seoul provides an English-language hotline to assist with finding doctors and other medical services. 
Medical bills can be expensive, so make sure you have valid travel insurance.
Some people with sensitive stomachs should use caution when dining in Korea as some of the local cuisine is heavily spiced with copious amounts of pepper and garlic.


=== Air quality ===
Air quality in Seoul is fine and improving. However, Seoul inhabitants sometimes wear different types of masks outdoors for allergies, smog and yellow dust storms (mostly in March–April). Mongolian yellow dust storms were regarded as dangerous long before industrialisation began in Asia. Now these storms pick up trace amounts of toxic chemicals from the Chinese industrial belt. Smog in Seoul is becoming less of a problem. In general, air quality has been improving since the early 2000s. Check the Korean Meteorological Administration for real-time weather info.


=== Credit Cards and ATMs ===
Foreign credit cards and even payment systems like Apple Pay or Google Pay frequently do not work in South Korea while domestic cards and several other digital payment systems are widely in use. Your best bet is a physical Visa or MasterCard credit card (preferably no debit) and a suitable amount of cash. Safe bets for Apple Pay and Google Pay to work are the convenience chains (7-Eleven, CU and GS25) as well as, unsurprisingly, Starbucks. Also, Uber does only work if your credit card is directly added to the Uber app without Apple or Google Pay in between.
The same goes for many ATMs which have to sport "Global ATM" signage to accept foreign cards.


=== Embassies ===
South Korea hosts a large number of embassies in Seoul.


== Go next ==
The Korean Demilitarized Zone — the 'last frontier of the cold war', and is very close to Seoul. This includes the famous peace village of Panmunjeom where negotiations have taken place for the past 50 years. Many tour companies offer DMZ tours which is a day trip from Seoul, the highlight of which is a village lying in the Demilitarized Zone between North and South Korea. You cannot visit without booking with a tour company, and that some nationalities are not allowed to visit for security reasons while others (including South Koreans and Chinese) require additional procedures. Many of these attractions are closed as of 2024, due to rising tensions. Check with tour providers which sites can still be visited.
Gwacheon — connected by short metro ride, it is home to many attractions such as Seoul Grand Park, Seoul Zoo, MMCA Gwacheon, and Gwacheon National Science Museum.
Yeongjong Island — Beaches, hot springs and fresh sea breezes.
Yongin — south of Seoul, home to Everland, Korea's most popular theme park as well as the Korean Folk Village, where traditional Korean arts are regularly performed in a living museum of the Joseon Dynasty, as well as Yongin Daejanggeum Park, an outdoor set built by Korean television broadcaster MBC for the filming of period dramas.
Incheon — The place where U.S. Gen. Douglas MacArthur landed in the Korean War; it also has the biggest and oldest Chinatown in Korea.
Gapyeong — a popular weekend getaway, east of Seoul. A small town in the mountains of Gyeonggi-do, on the border of Gangwon-do.
Chuncheon — Filmed in many Korean dramas and movies and now accessible by subway from Seoul
Suwon — 30 km south of Seoul, the home of Hwaseong Fortress (화성), a UNESCO world heritage site. Subway line 1 can take you there in about one hour. Good for a half-day trip from Seoul.
Busan — take a KTX or SRT high speed train down to Busan to enjoy the beach in summer. Makes a nice change of pace from Seoul.